# ASD ISM control identifiers, extracted from ASD's OSCAL catalog.
# catalog version: 2026.09.4  published: 2026-09-03T23:10:47.63884244Z
# source: https://github.com/AustralianCyberSecurityCentre/ism-oscal (CC BY 4.0)
# Regenerate with: python tools/refresh_ism_controls.py
# controls: 1192

ISM-0009	Protecting systems and their resources	System owners, in consultation with each system’s authorising officer, identify any supplementary security controls required based upon the unique nature of each system, its operating environment and 
ISM-0027	Protecting systems and their resources	System owners obtain an authorisation to operate for each non-classified, OFFICIAL: Sensitive, PROTECTED and SECRET system from its authorising officer.
ISM-0039	Cyber security strategy	A cyber security strategy is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-0041	System security plan	Systems have a system security plan that includes an overview of the system (covering the system’s purpose, the system boundary and how the system is managed) as well as an annex that covers applicabl
ISM-0042	System administration processes and procedures	System administration processes, and supporting system administration procedures, are developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-0043	Cyber security incident response plan	Systems have a cyber security incident response plan that covers the following:

- guidelines on what constitutes a cyber security incident
- the types of cyber security incidents likely to be encount
ISM-0047	Approval of cyber security documentation	Organisational-level cyber security documentation is approved by the chief information security officer while system-specific cyber security documentation is approved by the system’s authorising offic
ISM-0072	Contractual security requirements with service providers	Security requirements associated with the confidentiality, integrity and availability of data are documented in contractual arrangements with service providers and regularly reviewed to ensure they re
ISM-0078	Control of Australian systems	Systems processing, storing or communicating AUSTEO or AGAO data remain at all times under the control of an Australian national working for or on behalf of the Australian Government.
ISM-0100	Assessment of gateways	Non-classified, OFFICIAL: Sensitive, PROTECTED and SECRET gateways undergo an IRAP assessment, using the latest release of the ISM available prior to the beginning of the IRAP assessment (or a subsequ
ISM-0109	Event log monitoring	Event logs from workstations are analysed in a timely manner to detect cyber security events.
ISM-0120	Event log monitoring	Cyber security personnel have access to sufficient tools to facilitate the detection of cyber security events and the identification of cyber security incidents.
ISM-0123	Reporting cyber security incidents	Cyber security incidents are reported to the chief information security officer, or one of their delegates, as soon as possible after they occur or are discovered.
ISM-0125	Cyber security incident register	A cyber security incident register is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-0133	Handling and containing data spills	When a data spill occurs, data owners are advised and access to the data is restricted.
ISM-0137	Handling and containing intrusions	Legal advice is sought before allowing intrusion activity to continue on a system for the purpose of collecting further data or evidence.
ISM-0138	Maintaining the integrity of evidence	The integrity of evidence gathered during an investigation is maintained by investigators:

- recording all their actions
- maintaining a proper chain of custody
- following all instructions provided 
ISM-0140	Reporting cyber security incidents to ASD	Cyber security incidents are reported to ASD as soon as possible after they occur or are discovered.
ISM-0141	Contractual security requirements with service providers	The requirement for service providers to report cyber security incidents to a designated point of contact as soon as possible after they occur or are discovered is documented in contractual arrangemen
ISM-0142	Reporting cryptographic-related cyber security incidents	The compromise or suspected compromise of cryptographic equipment or associated keying material is reported to the chief information security officer, or one of their delegates, as soon as possible af
ISM-0161	Securing IT equipment and media	IT equipment and media are secured when not in use.
ISM-0164	Preventing observation by unauthorised people	Unauthorised people are prevented from observing systems, in particular workstation displays and keyboards, within facilities.
ISM-0181	Cabling infrastructure standards	Cabling infrastructure is installed in accordance with relevant Australian Standards, as directed by the Australian Communications and Media Authority.
ISM-0187	Common cable bundles and conduits	SECRET cables, when bundled together or run in conduit, are run exclusively in their own individual cable bundle or conduit.
ISM-0194	Sealing cable reticulation systems and conduits	In shared facilities, a visible smear of conduit glue is used to seal all plastic conduit joints and TOP SECRET conduits connected by threaded lock nuts.
ISM-0195	Sealing cable reticulation systems and conduits	In shared facilities, uniquely identifiable SCEC-approved tamper-evident seals are used to seal all removable covers on TOP SECRET cable reticulation systems.
ISM-0198	Audio secure rooms	When penetrating a TOP SECRET audio secure room, the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation is consulted and all directions provided are complied with.
ISM-0201	Labelling conduits	Labels for TOP SECRET conduits are a minimum size of 2.5 cm x 1 cm, attached at five-metre intervals and marked as ‘TS RUN’.
ISM-0206	Cable labelling processes and procedures	Cable labelling processes, and supporting cable labelling procedures, are developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-0208	Cable register	A cable register contains the following for each cable:

- cable identifier
- cable colour
- sensitivity/classification
- source
- destination
- location
- seal numbers (if applicable).
ISM-0211	Cable register	A cable register is developed, implemented, maintained and regularly verified.
ISM-0213	Terminating cables on patch panels	SECRET and TOP SECRET cables are terminated on their own individual patch panels.
ISM-0216	Physical separation of cabinets and patch panels	TOP SECRET patch panels are installed in individual TOP SECRET cabinets.
ISM-0217	Physical separation of cabinets and patch panels	Where spatial constraints demand non-TOP SECRET patch panels be installed in the same cabinet as a TOP SECRET patch panel:

- a physical barrier in the cabinet is provided to separate patch panels
- o
ISM-0218	Fly lead installation	If TOP SECRET fibre-optic fly leads exceeding five metres in length are used to connect wall outlet boxes to IT equipment, they are run in a protective and easily inspected pathway that is clearly lab
ISM-0225	Bringing radio frequency and infrared devices into facilities	Unauthorised RF and IR devices are not brought into SECRET and TOP SECRET areas.
ISM-0229	Personnel awareness	Personnel are advised of the permitted sensitivity or classification of information that can be discussed over internal and external telephone systems.
ISM-0230	Personnel awareness	Personnel are advised of security risks posed by non-secure telephone systems in areas where sensitive or classified conversations can occur.
ISM-0231	Personnel awareness	When using cryptographic equipment to permit different levels of conversation for different kinds of connections, telephone systems give a visual indication of what kind of connection has been made.
ISM-0232	Protecting conversations	Telephone systems used for sensitive or classified conversations encrypt all traffic that passes over external systems.
ISM-0233	Cordless telephone systems	Cordless telephone handsets and headsets are not used for sensitive or classified conversations unless all communications are encrypted using ASD-approved cryptography.
ISM-0235	Speakerphones	Speakerphones are not used on telephone systems in TOP SECRET areas unless the telephone system is located in an audio secure room, the room is audio secure during conversations and only personnel inv
ISM-0236	Off-hook audio protection	Off-hook audio protection features are used on telephone systems in areas where background conversations may exceed the sensitivity or classification that the telephone system is authorised for commun
ISM-0240	Using paging, message services and messaging apps	Paging, Multimedia Message Service, Short Message Service and messaging apps are not used to communicate sensitive or classified data.
ISM-0245	Connecting multifunction devices to digital telephone systems	MFDs are not connected to digital telephone systems.
ISM-0246	Emanation security risk assessments	When an emanation security risk assessment is required, it is sought as early as possible in a system’s life cycle.
ISM-0249	Emanation security risk assessments	System owners deploying SECRET or TOP SECRET systems in mobile platforms, or as a deployable capability, contact ASD for an emanation security risk assessment.
ISM-0250	Electromagnetic interference/electromagnetic compatibility standards	IT equipment meets industry and government standards relating to electromagnetic interference/electromagnetic compatibility.
ISM-0252	Providing cyber security awareness training	Cyber security awareness training is undertaken annually by all personnel and covers:

- the purpose of the cyber security awareness training
- security appointments and contacts
- authorised use of s
ISM-0258	Web usage policy	A web usage policy is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-0260	Using web proxies	All web access, including that by internal servers, is conducted through web proxies.
ISM-0261	Web proxy event logging	The following details are centrally logged for websites accessed via web proxies:

- web address
- date and time
- user
- amount of data uploaded and downloaded
- internal and external IP addresses.
ISM-0263	Transport Layer Security filtering	TLS traffic communicated through gateways is decrypted and inspected.
ISM-0264	Email usage policy	An email usage policy is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-0267	Webmail services	Access to non-approved webmail services is blocked.
ISM-0269	Email distribution lists	Emails containing Australian Eyes Only, Australian Government Access Only or Releasable To data are not sent to email distribution lists unless the nationality of all members of email distribution lis
ISM-0270	Protective markings for emails	Protective markings are applied to emails and reflect the highest sensitivity or classification of the subject, body and attachments.
ISM-0271	Protective marking tools	Protective marking tools do not automatically insert protective markings into emails.
ISM-0272	Protective marking tools	Protective marking tools do not allow the selection of protective markings that a system has not been authorised to process, store or communicate.
ISM-0280	Evaluated product selection	If procuring an evaluated product, a product that has completed a PP-based evaluation, including against all applicable PP modules (as well as a software bill of materials assessment if applicable), i
ISM-0285	Delivery of evaluated products	Evaluated products are delivered in a manner consistent with any delivery procedures defined in associated evaluation documentation.
ISM-0286	Delivery of evaluated products	When procuring high assurance information technology (IT) equipment, ASD is contacted for any equipment-specific delivery procedures.
ISM-0289	Using evaluated products	Evaluated products are installed, configured, administered and operated in an evaluated configuration and in accordance with vendor guidance.
ISM-0290	Using evaluated products	High assurance IT equipment is installed, configured, administered and operated in an evaluated configuration and in accordance with ASD guidance.
ISM-0293	Classifying IT equipment	IT equipment is classified based on the highest sensitivity or classification of data that it is approved for processing, storing or communicating.
ISM-0294	Labelling IT equipment	IT equipment, except for high assurance IT equipment, is labelled with protective markings reflecting its sensitivity or classification.
ISM-0296	Labelling high assurance IT equipment	ASD’s approval is sought before applying labels to external surfaces of high assurance IT equipment.
ISM-0298	Patch management processes and procedures	A centralised and managed approach that maintains the integrity of patches or updates, and confirms that they have been applied successfully, is used to patch or update applications, operating systems
ISM-0300	Mitigating known vulnerabilities	Patches, updates or other vendor mitigations for vulnerabilities in high assurance IT equipment are applied only when approved by ASD, and in doing so, using methods and timeframes prescribed by ASD.
ISM-0304	Cessation of support	Applications other than office productivity suites, web browsers and their extensions, email clients, PDF applications, Adobe Flash Player, and security products that are no longer supported by vendor
ISM-0305	On-site maintenance or repairs	Maintenance or repairs of IT equipment are carried out on site by an appropriately cleared technician.
ISM-0306	On-site maintenance or repairs	If an appropriately cleared technician is not used to undertake maintenance or repairs to IT equipment, the technician is escorted by someone who:

- has the authority to direct the technician
- is ap
ISM-0307	On-site maintenance or repairs	If an appropriately cleared technician is not used to undertake maintenance or repairs to IT equipment, the IT equipment and associated media are sanitised before maintenance or repairs.
ISM-0310	Off-site maintenance or repairs	IT equipment maintained or repaired off site is handled at facilities approved for handling the sensitivity or classification of the IT equipment.
ISM-0311	Sanitising IT equipment	IT equipment containing media is sanitised by removing the media from the IT equipment or by sanitising the media in situ.
ISM-0312	Sanitising highly sensitive IT equipment	IT equipment, including associated media, that is located overseas and has processed, stored or communicated AUSTEO or AGAO data that cannot be sanitised in situ, is returned to Australia for destruct
ISM-0313	IT equipment sanitisation processes and procedures	IT equipment sanitisation processes, and supporting IT equipment sanitisation procedures, are developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-0315	Destroying high assurance IT equipment	High assurance IT equipment is destroyed prior to its disposal.
ISM-0316	Disposal of IT equipment	Following sanitisation, destruction or declassification, a formal administrative decision is made to release IT equipment, or its waste, into the public domain.
ISM-0317	Sanitising printers and multifunction devices	At least three pages of random text with no blank areas are printed on each colour printer cartridge or MFD print drum.
ISM-0318	Sanitising printers and multifunction devices	When unable to sanitise printer cartridges or MFD print drums, they are destroyed as per electrostatic memory devices.
ISM-0321	Disposal of IT equipment	When disposing of IT equipment that has been designed or modified to meet emanation security standards, ASD is contacted for requirements relating to its disposal.
ISM-0323	Classifying media	Media is classified to the highest sensitivity or classification of data it stores, unless the media has been classified to a higher sensitivity or classification.
ISM-0325	Reclassifying media	Any media connected to a system with a higher sensitivity or classification than the media is reclassified to the higher sensitivity or classification, unless the media is read-only or the system has 
ISM-0330	Reclassifying media	Before reclassifying media to a lower sensitivity or classification, the media is sanitised or destroyed, and a formal administrative decision is made to reclassify it.
ISM-0332	Labelling media	Media, except for internally mounted fixed media within information technology equipment, is labelled with protective markings reflecting its sensitivity or classification.
ISM-0336	IT equipment registers	A networked IT equipment register is developed, implemented, maintained and regularly verified.
ISM-0337	Classifying media	Media is only used with systems that are authorised to process, store or communicate its sensitivity or classification.
ISM-0341	Hardening operating system configurations	Automatic execution features for removable media are disabled.
ISM-0343	Device access control	If there is no business requirement for writing to removable media and devices, such functionality is disabled via the use of a device access control application or by disabling external communication
ISM-0345	Device access control	External communication interfaces that allow DMA are disabled.
ISM-0347	Using media for data transfers	When transferring data manually between two systems belonging to different security domains, write-once media is used unless the destination system has a mechanism through which read-only access can b
ISM-0348	Media sanitisation processes and procedures	Media sanitisation processes, and supporting media sanitisation procedures, are developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-0350	Media that cannot be sanitised	The following media types are destroyed prior to their disposal:

- microfiche and microfilm
- optical discs
- programmable read-only memory
- read-only memory
- other types of media that cannot be sa
ISM-0351	Volatile media sanitisation	Volatile media is sanitised by removing its power for at least 10 minutes.
ISM-0352	Volatile media sanitisation	SECRET and TOP SECRET volatile media is sanitised by overwriting it at least once in its entirety with a random pattern followed by a read back for verification.
ISM-0354	Non-volatile magnetic media sanitisation	Non-volatile magnetic media is sanitised by overwriting it at least once (or three times if pre-2001 or under 15 GB) in its entirety with a random pattern followed by a read back for verification.
ISM-0356	Treatment of non-volatile magnetic media following sanitisation	Following sanitisation, SECRET and TOP SECRET non-volatile magnetic media retains its classification.
ISM-0357	Non-volatile erasable programmable read-only memory media sanitisation	Non-volatile EPROM media is sanitised by applying three times the manufacturer’s specified ultraviolet erasure time and then overwriting it at least once in its entirety with a random pattern followed
ISM-0358	Treatment of non-volatile erasable and electrically erasable programmable read-only memory media following sanitisation	Following sanitisation, SECRET and TOP SECRET non-volatile EPROM and EEPROM media retains its classification.
ISM-0359	Non-volatile flash memory media sanitisation	Non-volatile flash memory media is sanitised by overwriting it at least twice in its entirety with a random pattern followed by a read back for verification.
ISM-0360	Treatment of non-volatile flash memory media following sanitisation	Following sanitisation, SECRET and TOP SECRET non-volatile flash memory media retains its classification.
ISM-0361	Degaussing magnetic media	Magnetic media is destroyed using a degausser with a suitable magnetic field strength and magnetic orientation.
ISM-0362	Degaussing magnetic media	Product-specific directions provided by degausser manufacturers are followed.
ISM-0363	Media destruction processes and procedures	Media destruction processes, and supporting media destruction procedures, are developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-0368	Media destruction methods	Media destroyed using a hammer mill, disintegrator, grinder/sander or by cutting results in media waste particles no larger than 9 mm.
ISM-0370	Supervision of destruction	The destruction of media is performed under the supervision of at least one cleared person.
ISM-0371	Supervision of destruction	Personnel supervising the destruction of media supervise its handling to the point of destruction and ensure that the destruction is completed successfully.
ISM-0372	Supervision of accountable material destruction	The destruction of media storing accountable material is performed under the supervision of at least two cleared personnel.
ISM-0373	Supervision of accountable material destruction	Personnel supervising the destruction of media storing accountable material supervise its handling to the point of destruction, ensure that the destruction is completed successfully and sign a destruc
ISM-0374	Media disposal processes and procedures	Media disposal processes, and supporting media disposal procedures, are developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-0375	Disposal of media	Following sanitisation, destruction or declassification, a formal administrative decision is made to release media, or its waste, into the public domain.
ISM-0378	Disposal of media	Labels and markings indicating the owner, sensitivity, classification or any other marking that can associate media with its prior use are removed prior to its disposal.
ISM-0380	Hardening operating system configurations	Unneeded user accounts, components, services and functionality of operating systems are disabled or removed.
ISM-0382	Application management	Unprivileged human users do not have the ability to uninstall or disable approved applications.
ISM-0383	Hardening operating system configurations	Default user accounts or credentials for operating systems, including for any pre-configured user accounts, are changed, disabled or removed during initial setup.
ISM-0385	Functional separation between servers	Servers maintain effective functional separation from each other.
ISM-0393	Protecting database contents	Databases and their contents are classified based on the sensitivity or classification of data that they contain.
ISM-0400	Development, testing, staging and production environments	Development, testing, staging and production environments are segregated.
ISM-0401	Secure software development	Secure by Design principles and practices are followed throughout the software development life cycle.
ISM-0402	Software security testing	Software is comprehensively tested for vulnerabilities using SAST, DAST and SCA prior to its initial release, any subsequent release, and periodically to help identify any previously unidentified vuln
ISM-0405	Unprivileged access to systems	Requests for unprivileged access to systems and their resources are validated when first requested.
ISM-0407	Recording authorisation for personnel to access systems	A secure record is maintained for the life of systems and their resources that covers the following for each human user:

- their unique identifier
- their signed agreement to abide by system usage po
ISM-0408	System access requirements	Systems have a logon banner that reminds personnel of their security responsibilities when accessing the system and its resources.
ISM-0409	Unprivileged access to systems by foreign nationals	Foreign nationals, including seconded foreign nationals, do not have access to systems that process, store or communicate AUSTEO or REL data unless effective security controls are in place to ensure s
ISM-0411	Unprivileged access to systems by foreign nationals	Foreign nationals, excluding seconded foreign nationals, do not have access to systems that process, store or communicate AGAO data unless effective security controls are in place to ensure such data 
ISM-0414	User identification	Users granted access to systems and their resources are uniquely identifiable.
ISM-0415	User identification	The use of shared user accounts is strictly controlled, and users of such accounts are uniquely identifiable.
ISM-0417	Single-factor authentication	When systems cannot support multi-factor authentication, single-factor authentication using passwords is implemented instead.
ISM-0418	Protecting credentials	Physical credentials are kept separate from systems they are used to authenticate to, except for when performing authentication activities.
ISM-0420	User identification	Where systems process, store or communicate AUSTEO, AGAO or REL data, personnel who are foreign nationals are identified as such, including by their specific nationality.
ISM-0421	Password strength	Passwords used for single-factor authentication on non-classified, OFFICIAL: Sensitive and PROTECTED systems are a minimum of 15 characters.
ISM-0422	Password strength	Passwords used for single-factor authentication on TOP SECRET systems are a minimum of 20 characters.
ISM-0428	Session locking	Services are configured with a session lock that:

- activates after a maximum of 15 minutes of human user inactivity, a maximum of 12 hours of overall session time or when manually activated
- blocks
ISM-0430	Suspension of access to systems	Access to systems and their resources are removed or suspended the same day users no longer have a legitimate requirement for access.
ISM-0432	System access requirements	Access requirements for systems and their resources are documented in their system security plan.
ISM-0434	System access requirements	Personnel undergo appropriate employment screening and, where necessary, hold an appropriate security clearance before being granted access to systems and their resources.
ISM-0435	System access requirements	Personnel receive any necessary briefings before being granted access to systems and their resources.
ISM-0441	Temporary access to systems	When personnel are granted temporary access to systems and their resources, effective security controls are put in place to restrict their access to only data required for them to undertake their duti
ISM-0443	Temporary access to systems	Temporary access is not granted to systems that process, store or communicate caveated or sensitive compartmented information.
ISM-0445	Privileged access to systems	Privileged human users are assigned a dedicated privileged user account to be used solely for duties requiring privileged access.
ISM-0446	Privileged access to systems by foreign nationals	Foreign nationals, including seconded foreign nationals, do not have privileged access to systems that process, store or communicate AUSTEO or REL data.
ISM-0447	Privileged access to systems by foreign nationals	Foreign nationals, excluding seconded foreign nationals, do not have privileged access to systems that process, store or communicate AGAO data.
ISM-0455	Data recovery	Where practical, cryptographic equipment, applications and libraries provide a means of data recovery to allow for circumstances where the encryption key is unavailable due to loss, damage or failure.
ISM-0457	Cryptographic implementation assurance	Cryptographic equipment, applications or libraries that have completed a Common Criteria evaluation against an ASD-endorsed Protection Profile are used when encrypting media that contains OFFICIAL: Se
ISM-0459	Encrypting media	Full disk encryption, or partial encryption where access controls only allow writing to encrypted partitions or volumes, is implemented when encrypting media.
ISM-0460	Cryptographic implementation assurance	HACE is used when encrypting media that contains SECRET or TOP SECRET data.
ISM-0462	Handling encrypted IT equipment and media	When a user authenticates to the encryption functionality of IT equipment or media, it is treated in accordance with its original sensitivity or classification until the user deauthenticates from the 
ISM-0465	Cryptographic implementation assurance	Cryptographic equipment, applications or libraries that have completed a Common Criteria evaluation against an ASD-endorsed Protection Profile are used to protect OFFICIAL: Sensitive or PROTECTED data
ISM-0467	Cryptographic implementation assurance	HACE is used to protect SECRET and TOP SECRET data when communicated over insufficiently secure networks, outside of appropriately secure areas or via public network infrastructure.
ISM-0469	Using cryptographic protocols	An AACP or high assurance cryptographic protocol is used when encrypting data in transit.
ISM-0471	Using cryptographic algorithms	Only AACAs or high assurance cryptographic algorithms are used by cryptographic equipment, applications and libraries.
ISM-0472	Using Diffie-Hellman	When using DH for agreeing on encryption session keys, a modulus of at least 2048 bits is used, preferably 3072 bits.
ISM-0474	Using Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman	When using ECDH for agreeing on encryption session keys, a base point order and key size of at least 224 bits is used, preferably the NIST P-384 curve.
ISM-0475	Using the Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm	When using ECDSA for digital signatures, a base point order and key size of at least 224 bits is used, preferably the P-384 curve.
ISM-0476	Using Rivest-Shamir-Adleman	When using RSA for digital signatures, and transporting encryption session keys (and similar keys), a modulus of at least 2048 bits is used, preferably 3072 bits.
ISM-0477	Using Rivest-Shamir-Adleman	When using RSA for digital signatures, and for transporting encryption session keys (and similar keys), a different key pair is used for digital signatures and transporting encryption session keys.
ISM-0479	Using symmetric cryptographic algorithms	Symmetric cryptographic algorithms are not used in Electronic Codebook Mode.
ISM-0481	Using cryptographic protocols	Only AACPs or high assurance cryptographic protocols are used by cryptographic equipment, applications and libraries.
ISM-0484	Configuring Secure Shell	The SSH daemon is configured to:

- only listen on the required interfaces (ListenAddress xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx)
- have a suitable login banner (Banner x)
- have a login authentication timeout of no more th
ISM-0485	Authentication mechanisms	Public key-based authentication is used for SSH connections.
ISM-0487	Automated remote access	When using logins without a password for SSH connections, the following are disabled:

- access from IP addresses that do not require access
- port forwarding
- agent credential forwarding
- X11 forwa
ISM-0488	Automated remote access	If using remote access without the use of a password for SSH connections, the ‘forced command’ option is used to specify what command is executed and parameter checking is enabled.
ISM-0489	SSH-agent	When SSH-agent or similar key caching applications are used, cached private keys have a maximum lifetime of four hours and, where applicable, screen locks are used on workstations and servers.
ISM-0490	Configuring Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions	Versions of S/MIME earlier than S/MIME version 3.0 are not used for S/MIME connections.
ISM-0494	Mode of operation	Tunnel mode is used for IPsec connections; however, if using transport mode, an IP tunnel is used.
ISM-0496	Protocol selection	The ESP protocol is used for authentication and encryption of IPsec connections.
ISM-0498	Security association lifetimes	A security association lifetime of less than four hours (14400 seconds) is used for IPsec connections.
ISM-0499	Communications security doctrine	Communications security doctrine and policy produced by ASD for the management and operation of HACE is complied with.
ISM-0501	Transporting cryptographic equipment	Keyed cryptographic equipment is transported based on the sensitivity or classification of its keying material.
ISM-0507	Cryptographic key management processes and procedures	Cryptographic key management processes, and supporting cryptographic key management procedures, are developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-0516	Network documentation	Network documentation includes high-level network diagrams showing all connections into networks and logical network diagrams showing all critical servers, high-value servers, network devices and netw
ISM-0518	Network documentation	Network documentation is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-0520	Network access controls	Network access controls are implemented on networks to prevent the connection of unauthorised network devices and networked IT equipment.
ISM-0529	Using virtual local area networks	VLANs are not used to separate network traffic between networks belonging to different security domains.
ISM-0530	Using virtual local area networks	Network devices managing VLANs are administered from the most trusted security domain.
ISM-0534	Disabling unused physical ports on network devices	Unused physical ports on network devices are disabled.
ISM-0535	Using virtual local area networks	Network devices managing VLANs belonging to different security domains do not share VLAN trunks.
ISM-0536	Public wireless networks	Public wireless networks provided for public use are segregated from all other organisation networks.
ISM-0546	Video-aware and voice-aware firewalls and proxies	When video conferencing or IP telephony traffic passes through a gateway containing a firewall or proxy, a video-aware or voice-aware firewall or proxy is used.
ISM-0547	Protecting video conferencing and Internet Protocol telephony traffic	Video conferencing and IP telephony calls are conducted using a secure real-time transport protocol.
ISM-0548	Protecting video conferencing and Internet Protocol telephony traffic	Video conferencing and IP telephony calls are established using a secure session initiation protocol.
ISM-0549	Traffic separation	Video conferencing and IP telephony traffic is physically or logically separated from other data traffic.
ISM-0551	Video conferencing unit and Internet Protocol phone authentication	IP telephony is configured such that:

- IP phones authenticate themselves to the call controller upon registration
- auto-registration is disabled and only authorised devices are allowed to access th
ISM-0553	Video conferencing unit and Internet Protocol phone authentication	Authentication and authorisation is used for all actions on a video conferencing network, including call setup and changing settings.
ISM-0554	Video conferencing unit and Internet Protocol phone authentication	An encrypted and non-replayable two-way authentication scheme is used for call authentication and authorisation.
ISM-0555	Video conferencing unit and Internet Protocol phone authentication	Authentication and authorisation is used for all actions on an IP telephony network, including registering a new IP phone, changing phone users, changing settings and accessing voicemail.
ISM-0556	Traffic separation	Workstations are not connected to video conferencing units or IP phones unless the workstation or the device uses virtual local area networks or similar mechanisms to maintain separation between video
ISM-0558	Internet Protocol phones in public areas	IP phones used in public areas do not have the ability to access data networks, voicemail and directory services.
ISM-0559	Microphones and webcams	Microphones (including headsets and USB handsets) and webcams are not used with non-SECRET workstations in SECRET areas.
ISM-0565	Handling emails with inappropriate, invalid or missing protective markings	Email servers are configured to block, log and report emails with inappropriate protective markings.
ISM-0567	Open relay email servers	Email servers only relay emails destined for or originating from their domains (including subdomains).
ISM-0569	Centralised email gateways	Emails are routed via centralised email gateways.
ISM-0570	Email gateway maintenance activities	Where backup or alternative email gateways are in place, they are maintained at the same standard as the primary email gateway.
ISM-0571	Centralised email gateways	When users send or receive emails, an authenticated and encrypted channel is used to route emails via their organisation’s centralised email gateways.
ISM-0572	Email server transport encryption	Opportunistic TLS encryption is enabled on email servers that make incoming or outgoing email connections over public network infrastructure.
ISM-0574	Sender Policy Framework	SPF is used to specify authorised email servers (or lack thereof) for an organisation’s domains (including subdomains).
ISM-0576	Cyber security incident management policy	A cyber security incident management policy, and associated cyber security incident response plan, is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-0580	Security monitoring policy	A security monitoring policy is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-0582	Operating system event logging	Security-relevant events for Microsoft Windows operating systems are centrally logged.
ISM-0585	Event log details	For each event logged, the date and time of the event, the relevant user or process, the relevant filename, the event description, and the information technology equipment involved are captured.
ISM-0588	Multifunction device usage policy	An MFD usage policy is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-0589	Scanning and copying documents on multifunction devices	MFDs are not used to scan or copy documents above the sensitivity or classification of networks they are connected to.
ISM-0590	Authenticating to multifunction devices	Authentication measures for MFDs are the same strength as those used for workstations on networks they are connected to.
ISM-0591	Using peripheral switches	Evaluated peripheral switches are used when sharing peripherals between systems.
ISM-0597	Consultation on cross domain solutions	When planning, designing, implementing or introducing additional connectivity to CDSs, ASD is consulted and any directions provided by ASD are complied with.
ISM-0610	Cross domain solution use	Human users are trained on the secure use of CDSs before access is granted.
ISM-0611	System administrators for gateways	System administrators for gateways are assigned the minimum privileges required to perform their duties.
ISM-0612	System administrators for gateways	System administrators for gateways are formally trained on the operation and management of gateways.
ISM-0613	System administrators for gateways	System administrators for gateways that connect to Australian Eyes Only or Releasable To networks are Australian nationals.
ISM-0616	System administrators for gateways	Separation of duties is implemented in performing administrative activities for gateways.
ISM-0619	Authenticating to networks accessed via gateways	Users authenticate to other networks accessed via gateways.
ISM-0622	Authenticating to networks accessed via gateways	IT equipment authenticates to other networks accessed via gateways.
ISM-0626	Implementing cross domain solutions	CDSs are implemented between SECRET or TOP SECRET networks and any other networks belonging to different security domains.
ISM-0628	Implementing gateways	Gateways are implemented between networks belonging to different security domains.
ISM-0629	System administration of gateways	For gateways between networks belonging to different security domains, any shared components are managed by system administrators for the higher security domain or by system administrators from a mutu
ISM-0631	Implementing gateways	Gateways only allow explicitly authorised data flows.
ISM-0634	Gateway event logging	Security-relevant events for gateways are centrally logged, including:

- data packets and data flows permitted through gateways
- data packets and data flows attempting to leave gateways
- real-time 
ISM-0635	Separation of data flows	CDSs implement isolated upward and downward network paths.
ISM-0637	Implementing gateways	Gateways implement a demilitarised zone if external parties require access to an organisation’s services.
ISM-0639	Using firewalls	Evaluated firewalls are used between networks belonging to different security domains.
ISM-0643	Using diodes	Evaluated diodes are used for controlling the data flow of unidirectional gateways between an organisation’s networks and public network infrastructure.
ISM-0645	Using diodes	Evaluated diodes used for controlling the data flow of unidirectional gateways between SECRET or TOP SECRET networks and public network infrastructure complete a high assurance evaluation.
ISM-0649	Allowing specific content types	Files imported or exported via gateways or CDSs are filtered for allowed file types.
ISM-0651	Performing content filtering	Files identified by content filtering checks as malicious, or that cannot be inspected, are blocked.
ISM-0652	Performing content filtering	Files identified by content filtering checks as suspicious are quarantined until reviewed and subsequently approved or not approved for release.
ISM-0657	Manual import of data	When manually importing data to systems, the data is scanned for malicious and active content.
ISM-0659	Performing content filtering	Files imported or exported via gateways or CDSs undergo content filtering checks.
ISM-0660	Monitoring data import and export	Data transfer logs for SECRET and TOP SECRET systems are fully verified at least monthly.
ISM-0661	Accountability for data transfers	Human users transferring data to and from systems are held accountable for data transfers they perform.
ISM-0663	Data transfer processes and procedures	Data transfer processes, and supporting data transfer procedures, are developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-0664	Authorising export of data	Data exported from SECRET and TOP SECRET systems is reviewed and authorised by a trustworthy source beforehand.
ISM-0665	Authorising export of data	Trustworthy sources for SECRET and TOP SECRET systems are limited to people and systems that have been verified and authorised as such by the chief information security officer.
ISM-0669	Manual export of data	When manually exporting data from SECRET and TOP SECRET systems, digital signatures are validated and keyword checks are performed within all textual data.
ISM-0670	Cross domain solution event logging	Security-relevant events for CDSs are centrally logged.
ISM-0675	Authorising export of data	Data authorised for export from SECRET and TOP SECRET systems is digitally signed by a trustworthy source.
ISM-0677	Validating file integrity	Files imported or exported via gateways or CDSs that have a digital signature or cryptographic checksum are validated.
ISM-0682	Using Bluetooth functionality	Bluetooth functionality is not enabled on SECRET and TOP SECRET mobile devices.
ISM-0687	Approved mobile platforms	Mobile devices that access SECRET or TOP SECRET systems or data use mobile platforms that have been issued an Approval for Use by ASD and are operated in accordance with the latest version of their as
ISM-0694	Privately owned mobile devices and desktop computers	Privately owned mobile devices and desktop computers do not access SECRET and TOP SECRET systems or data.
ISM-0701	Mobile device emergency sanitisation processes and procedures	Mobile device emergency sanitisation processes, and supporting mobile device emergency sanitisation procedures, are developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-0702	Mobile device emergency sanitisation processes and procedures	If a cryptographic zeroise or sanitise function is provided for cryptographic keys on a SECRET or TOP SECRET mobile device, the function is used as part of mobile device emergency sanitisation process
ISM-0705	Mobile devices and desktop computers accessing the internet	When accessing an organisation’s network via a VPN connection, split tunnelling is disabled.
ISM-0714	Providing cyber security leadership and guidance	A CISO is appointed to provide cyber security leadership and guidance for their organisation (covering IT and OT).
ISM-0717	Overseeing cyber security personnel	The CISO oversees the management of cyber security personnel within their organisation.
ISM-0718	Reporting on cyber security	The CISO regularly reports directly to their organisation’s board of directors or executive committee on cyber security matters.
ISM-0720	Communicating a cyber security vision and strategy	The CISO oversees the development, implementation and maintenance of a cyber security communications strategy to assist in communicating the cyber security vision and strategy for their organisation.
ISM-0724	Overseeing the cyber security program	The CISO implements cyber security measurement metrics and key performance indicators for their organisation.
ISM-0725	Coordinating cyber security	The CISO coordinates cyber security and business alignment through a cyber security steering committee or advisory board, comprising key cyber security and business executives, which meets formally an
ISM-0726	Coordinating cyber security	The CISO coordinates security risk management activities between cyber security and business teams.
ISM-0731	Working with suppliers	The CISO oversees cyber supply chain risk management activities for their organisation.
ISM-0732	Receiving and managing a dedicated cyber security budget	The CISO receives and manages a dedicated cyber security budget for their organisation.
ISM-0733	Overseeing cyber security incident response activities	The CISO is fully aware of all cyber security incidents within their organisation.
ISM-0734	Contributing to business continuity and disaster recovery planning	The CISO contributes to the development, implementation and maintenance of business continuity and disaster recovery plans for their organisation to ensure that business-critical services are supporte
ISM-0735	Overseeing cyber security awareness training	The CISO oversees the development, implementation and maintenance of their organisation’s cyber security awareness training program.
ISM-0810	Physical access to systems	Classified systems are secured in facilities that meet the requirements for a security zone suitable for their classification.
ISM-0813	Physical access to servers, network devices and cryptographic equipment	Server rooms, communications rooms and security containers are not left in unsecured states.
ISM-0817	Reporting suspicious contact via online services	Personnel are advised of what suspicious contact via online services is and how to report it.
ISM-0820	Posting work-related information on online services	Personnel are advised not to post work-related information on unauthorised online services, and to report cases where such information is posted.
ISM-0821	Posting personal information on online services	Personnel are advised of security risks associated with posting personal information on online services.
ISM-0824	Sending and receiving files via online services	Personnel are advised not to send or receive files via unauthorised online services.
ISM-0829	Bringing radio frequency and infrared devices into facilities	Security measures are used to detect and respond to unauthorised RF devices in SECRET and TOP SECRET areas.
ISM-0831	Handling media	Media is handled in a manner suitable for its sensitivity or classification.
ISM-0835	Treatment of volatile media following sanitisation	Following sanitisation, TOP SECRET volatile media retains its classification if it stored static data for an extended period, or had data repeatedly stored on or written to the same memory location fo
ISM-0836	Non-volatile electrically erasable programmable read-only memory media sanitisation	Non-volatile EEPROM media is sanitised by overwriting it at least once in its entirety with a random pattern followed by a read back for verification.
ISM-0839	Outsourcing media destruction	The destruction of media storing accountable material is not outsourced.
ISM-0840	Outsourcing media destruction	When outsourcing the destruction of media storing non-accountable material, a National Association for Information Destruction AAA certified destruction service with endorsements, as specified in ASIO
ISM-0843	Application control	Application control is implemented on workstations.
ISM-0846	Application control	Users cannot disable or bypass application control, and are not exempted from application control, except when using local administrator accounts or break glass accounts.
ISM-0853	Session termination	Interactive user sessions are terminated and workstations are restarted at least daily.
ISM-0854	Control of Australian systems	AUSTEO and AGAO data can only be accessed from systems under the sole control of the Australian Government that are located within facilities authorised by the Australian Government.
ISM-0861	DomainKeys Identified Mail	DKIM signing is enabled on emails originating from an organisation’s domains (including subdomains).
ISM-0863	Maintaining mobile device security	Mobile devices prevent personnel from installing non-approved applications once provisioned.
ISM-0864	Maintaining mobile device security	Mobile devices prevent personnel from disabling or modifying security functionality once provisioned.
ISM-0866	Using mobile devices in public spaces	Sensitive or classified data is not viewed on mobile devices in public locations unless care is taken to reduce the chance of the screen of a mobile device being observed.
ISM-0869	Encrypted storage	Mobile devices encrypt their internal storage and any removable media using ASD-approved cryptography.
ISM-0870	Maintaining control of mobile devices	Mobile devices are carried or stored in a secured state when not being actively used.
ISM-0871	Maintaining control of mobile devices	Mobile devices are kept under continual direct supervision when being actively used.
ISM-0874	Mobile devices and desktop computers accessing the internet	Mobile devices and desktop computers access the internet via an organisation’s internet gateway rather than via a direct connection to the internet.
ISM-0888	Maintenance of cyber security documentation	Cyber security documentation is reviewed at least annually and includes a ‘current as at \[date\]’ or equivalent statement.
ISM-0912	Change and configuration management plan	Systems have a change and configuration management plan that includes:

- the establishment and maintenance of authorised baseline configurations for systems
- what constitutes routine and urgent chan
ISM-0917	Handling and containing malicious code infections	When malicious code is detected, the following steps are taken to handle the infection:

- the infected systems are isolated
- all previously connected media used in the period leading up to the infec
ISM-0926	Cable colours	Non-classified, OFFICIAL: Sensitive and PROTECTED cables are coloured neither salmon pink nor red.
ISM-0931	Off-hook audio protection	In SECRET and TOP SECRET areas, push-to-talk handsets or push-to-talk headsets are used to meet any off-hook audio protection requirements.
ISM-0938	User application selection	Vendors that have demonstrated a commitment to Secure by Design and Secure by Default principles and practices, including secure programming practices and either memory-safe programming languages or l
ISM-0947	Using media for data transfers	When transferring data manually between two systems belonging to different security domains, rewritable media is sanitised after each data transfer.
ISM-0955	Application control	Application control is implemented using cryptographic hash rules, publisher certificate rules or path rules.
ISM-0958	Allowing and blocking access to domain names	An organisation-approved list of domain names, or list of website categories, is implemented for all Hypertext Transfer Protocol and Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure traffic communicated through gat
ISM-0961	Using web content filters	Client-side active content is restricted by web content filters to an organisation-approved list of domain names.
ISM-0963	Using web content filters	Web content filtering is implemented to filter potentially harmful web-based content.
ISM-0971	Secure web application design and development	The OWASP Application Security Verification Standard is used in the development of web applications.
ISM-0974	Multi-factor authentication	Multi-factor authentication is used to authenticate unprivileged human users of systems.
ISM-0988	Centralised event logging facility	An accurate and consistent time source is used for event logging.
ISM-0994	Asymmetric cryptographic algorithms	ECDH is used in preference to DH.
ISM-0998	Integrity algorithms	AUTH_HMAC_SHA2_256_128, AUTH_HMAC_SHA2_384_192, AUTH_HMAC_SHA2_512_256 or NONE (only with AES-GCM) is used for authenticating IPsec connections, preferably NONE.
ISM-0999	Diffie-Hellman groups	DH or ECDH is used for key establishment of IPsec connections, preferably 384-bit random ECP group, 3072-bit MODP Group or 4096-bit MODP Group.
ISM-1000	Perfect Forward Secrecy	PFS is used for IPsec connections.
ISM-1006	Network management traffic	Security measures are implemented to prevent unauthorised access to network management traffic.
ISM-1013	Wireless network footprint	The effective range of wireless communications outside an organisation’s area of control is limited by implementing RF shielding on facilities in which SECRET or TOP SECRET wireless networks are used.
ISM-1014	Video conferencing unit and Internet Protocol phone authentication	Individual logins are implemented for IP phones used for SECRET or TOP SECRET conversations.
ISM-1019	Denial of service response plan	A denial of service response plan for video conferencing and IP telephony services is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1023	Handling emails with inappropriate, invalid or missing protective markings	The intended recipients of blocked inbound emails, and the senders of blocked outbound emails, are notified.
ISM-1024	Notifications of undeliverable emails	Notifications of undeliverable emails are only sent to senders that can be verified via SPF or other trusted means.
ISM-1026	DomainKeys Identified Mail	DKIM signatures on incoming emails are verified.
ISM-1027	DomainKeys Identified Mail	Email distribution list applications used by external senders is configured such that it does not break the validity of the sender’s DKIM signature.
ISM-1028	Using network-based intrusion detection and prevention systems	A NIDS or NIPS is deployed in gateways between an organisation’s networks and other networks they do not manage.
ISM-1030	Using network-based intrusion detection and prevention systems	A NIDS or NIPS is located immediately inside the outermost firewall for gateways and configured to generate event logs and alerts for network traffic that contravenes any rule in a firewall ruleset.
ISM-1034	Host-based intrusion detection and response solution	A HIPS or EDR solution is implemented on critical servers and high-value servers.
ISM-1036	Observing multifunction device use	MFDs are placed in areas where their use can be observed.
ISM-1037	Assessment of gateways	Gateways undergo testing following configuration changes, and at regular intervals no more than six months apart, to validate that they conform to expected security configurations.
ISM-1053	Physical access to servers, network devices and cryptographic equipment	Classified servers, network devices and cryptographic equipment are secured in server rooms or communications rooms that meet the requirements for a security zone suitable for their classification.
ISM-1055	Insecure authentication methods	LAN Manager and NT LAN Manager authentication methods are disabled.
ISM-1059	Encrypting media	All data stored on media is encrypted using ASD-approved cryptography.
ISM-1065	Non-volatile magnetic media sanitisation	The host-protected area and device configuration overlay table are reset prior to the sanitisation of non-volatile magnetic hard drives.
ISM-1067	Non-volatile magnetic media sanitisation	The ATA secure erase command is used, in addition to block overwriting software, to ensure the growth defects table of non-volatile magnetic hard drives is overwritten.
ISM-1071	System ownership and oversight	Each system has a designated system owner.
ISM-1073	Access to systems by service providers	An organisation’s systems are not accessed or administered by a service provider unless a contractual arrangement exists between the organisation and the service provider to do so.
ISM-1074	Physical access to servers, network devices and cryptographic equipment	Keys or equivalent access mechanisms to server rooms, communications rooms and security containers are appropriately controlled.
ISM-1076	Sanitising televisions and computer monitors	Televisions and computer monitors with minor burn-in or image persistence are sanitised by displaying a solid white image on the screen for an extended period.
ISM-1078	Telephone system usage policy	A telephone system usage policy is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1079	Maintenance or repairs of high assurance IT equipment	ASD’s approval is sought before undertaking any maintenance or repairs to high assurance IT equipment.
ISM-1080	Using cryptographic algorithms	An AACA or high assurance cryptographic algorithm is used when encrypting data at rest.
ISM-1082	Mobile device usage policy	A mobile device usage policy is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1083	Personnel awareness	Personnel are advised of the sensitivity or classification permitted for voice and data communications when using mobile devices.
ISM-1084	Maintaining control of mobile devices	If unable to carry or store mobile devices in a secured state, they are physically transferred in a security briefcase or an approved multi-use satchel, pouch or transit bag.
ISM-1085	Encrypted communications	Mobile devices encrypt all sensitive or classified data communicated over public network infrastructure using ASD-approved cryptography.
ISM-1088	While travelling overseas with mobile devices	Personnel report the potential compromise of mobile devices, removable media or credentials to their organisation as soon as possible, especially if they:

- provide credentials to foreign government 
ISM-1089	Protective marking tools	When replying to or forwarding emails, protective marking tools do not allow the selection of protective markings lower than previously used.
ISM-1091	Reporting cryptographic-related cyber security incidents	Keying material is changed when compromised or suspected of being compromised.
ISM-1095	Labelling wall outlet boxes	Wall outlet boxes denote the systems, cable identifiers and wall outlet box identifier.
ISM-1096	Labelling cables	Cables are labelled at each end with sufficient source and destination details to enable the physical identification and inspection of the cable.
ISM-1098	Terminating cables in cabinets	SECRET cables are terminated in an individual cabinet; or for small systems, a cabinet with a division plate between any SECRET cables and non-SECRET cables.
ISM-1100	Terminating cables in cabinets	TOP SECRET cables are terminated in an individual TOP SECRET cabinet.
ISM-1101	Connecting cable reticulation systems to cabinets	In TOP SECRET areas, cable reticulation systems leading into cabinets in server rooms or communications rooms are terminated as close as possible to the cabinet.
ISM-1102	Connecting cable reticulation systems to cabinets	Cable reticulation systems leading into cabinets are terminated as close as possible to the cabinet.
ISM-1103	Connecting cable reticulation systems to cabinets	In TOP SECRET areas, cable reticulation systems leading into cabinets not in server rooms or communications rooms are terminated at the boundary of the cabinet.
ISM-1105	Wall outlet boxes	SECRET and TOP SECRET wall outlet boxes contain exclusively SECRET or TOP SECRET cables.
ISM-1107	Wall outlet box colours	Non-classified, OFFICIAL: Sensitive and PROTECTED wall outlet boxes are coloured neither salmon pink nor red.
ISM-1109	Wall outlet box covers	Wall outlet box covers are clear plastic.
ISM-1111	Use of fibre-optic cables	Fibre-optic cables are used for cabling infrastructure instead of copper cables.
ISM-1112	Cable inspectability	Cables in non-TOP SECRET areas are inspectable every five metres or less.
ISM-1114	Common cable reticulation systems	Cable bundles or conduits sharing a common cable reticulation system have a dividing partition or visible gap between each cable bundle and conduit.
ISM-1115	Cables in walls	Cables from cable trays to wall outlet boxes are run in flexible or plastic conduit.
ISM-1116	Physical separation of cabinets and patch panels	A visible gap exists between TOP SECRET cabinets and non-TOP SECRET cabinets.
ISM-1119	Cable inspectability	Cables in TOP SECRET areas are fully inspectable for their entire length.
ISM-1122	Wall penetrations	Where wall penetrations exit a TOP SECRET area into a lower classified area, TOP SECRET cables are encased in conduit with all gaps between the TOP SECRET conduit and the wall filled with an appropria
ISM-1123	Power reticulation	A power distribution board with a feed from an Uninterruptible Power Supply is used to power all TOP SECRET IT equipment.
ISM-1130	Enclosed cable reticulation systems	In shared facilities, cables are run in an enclosed cable reticulation system.
ISM-1133	Cables in party walls	In shared facilities, TOP SECRET cables are not run in party walls.
ISM-1137	Emanation security risk assessments	System owners deploying SECRET or TOP SECRET systems within fixed facilities contact ASD for an emanation security risk assessment.
ISM-1139	Configuring Transport Layer Security	Only the latest version of TLS is used for TLS connections.
ISM-1143	Patch management processes and procedures	Patch management processes, and supporting patch management procedures, are developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1145	Using mobile devices in public spaces	Privacy filters are applied to the screens of SECRET and TOP SECRET mobile devices.
ISM-1146	Posting personal information on online services	Personnel are advised to maintain separate personal user accounts from any work user accounts they use for online services.
ISM-1151	Sender Policy Framework	SPF is used to verify the authenticity of incoming emails.
ISM-1157	Using diodes	Evaluated diodes are used for controlling the data flow of unidirectional gateways between networks.
ISM-1158	Using diodes	Evaluated diodes used for controlling the data flow of unidirectional gateways between SECRET or TOP SECRET networks and any other networks complete a high assurance evaluation.
ISM-1160	Media destruction equipment	If using degaussers to destroy media, degaussers evaluated by the United States’ National Security Agency are used.
ISM-1163	Continuous monitoring plan	Systems have a continuous monitoring plan that includes:

- conducting security assessment activities to identify vulnerabilities
- analysing identified vulnerabilities to determine their potential im
ISM-1164	Covers for enclosed cable reticulation systems	In shared facilities, conduits or the front covers of ducts, cable trays in floors and ceilings, and associated fittings are clear plastic.
ISM-1171	Allowing and blocking access to domain names	Attempts to access websites through their IP addresses instead of their domain names are blocked by web content filters.
ISM-1173	Multi-factor authentication	Multi-factor authentication is used to authenticate privileged human users of systems.
ISM-1175	Privileged access to systems	Privileged user accounts (excluding those explicitly authorised to access online services) are prevented from accessing the internet, email and web services.
ISM-1178	Network documentation	Network documentation provided to a third party, or published in public tender documentation, only contains details necessary for other parties to undertake contractual services.
ISM-1181	Network segmentation and segregation	Networks are segregated into multiple network zones according to the criticality of servers, services and data.
ISM-1182	Network access controls	Network access controls are implemented to limit the flow of network traffic within and between network segments to only that required for business purposes.
ISM-1183	Sender Policy Framework	A hard fail SPF record is used when specifying authorised email servers (or lack thereof) for an organisation’s domains (including subdomains).
ISM-1186	Using Internet Protocol version 6	IPv6 capable network security appliances are used on IPv6 and dual-stack networks.
ISM-1187	Manual export of data	When manually exporting data from systems, the data is checked for unsuitable protective markings.
ISM-1192	Implementing gateways	Gateways inspect and filter data flows at the transport and above network layers.
ISM-1195	Mobile device management policy	Mobile Device Management solutions that have completed a Common Criteria evaluation against the Protection Profile for Mobile Device Management, version 4.0 or later, are used to enforce mobile device
ISM-1196	Using Bluetooth functionality	Non-classified, OFFICIAL: Sensitive and PROTECTED mobile devices are configured to remain undiscoverable to other Bluetooth devices except during Bluetooth pairing.
ISM-1198	Using Bluetooth functionality	Bluetooth pairing for non-classified, OFFICIAL: Sensitive and PROTECTED mobile devices is performed in a manner such that connections are only made between intended Bluetooth devices.
ISM-1199	Using Bluetooth functionality	Bluetooth pairings for non-classified, OFFICIAL: Sensitive and PROTECTED mobile devices are removed when there is no longer a requirement for their use.
ISM-1200	Using Bluetooth functionality	Bluetooth pairing for non-classified, OFFICIAL: Sensitive and PROTECTED mobile devices is performed using Secure Connections, preferably with Numeric Comparison if supported.
ISM-1203	Protecting systems and their resources	System owners, in consultation with each system’s authorising officer, conduct a threat and risk assessment for each system.
ISM-1211	System administration processes and procedures	System administration activities are performed in accordance with the system’s change and configuration management plan.
ISM-1213	Handling and containing intrusions	Following intrusion remediation activities, enhanced monitoring is conducted until there is sufficient evidence-based confidence that malicious actors have been eradicated from a system and have not r
ISM-1216	Cable colour non-conformance	SECRET and TOP SECRET cables with non-conformant cable colouring are banded with the appropriate colour and labelled at inspection points.
ISM-1217	Disposal of IT equipment	Labels and markings indicating the owner, sensitivity, classification or any other marking that can associate IT equipment with its prior use are removed prior to its disposal.
ISM-1218	Sanitising highly sensitive IT equipment	IT equipment, including associated media, that is located overseas and has processed, stored or communicated AUSTEO or AGAO data, is sanitised in situ.
ISM-1219	Sanitising printers and multifunction devices	MFD print drums and image transfer rollers are inspected and destroyed if there is remnant toner that cannot be removed or a print is visible on the image transfer roller.
ISM-1220	Sanitising printers and multifunction devices	Printer and MFD platens are inspected and destroyed if any text or images are retained on the platen.
ISM-1221	Sanitising printers and multifunction devices	Printers and MFDs are checked to ensure no pages are trapped in the paper path due to a paper jam.
ISM-1222	Sanitising televisions and computer monitors	Televisions and computer monitors that cannot be sanitised are destroyed.
ISM-1223	Sanitising network devices	Memory in network devices is sanitised using the following processes, in order of preference:

- following device-specific guidance provided in evaluation documentation
- following vendor sanitisation
ISM-1227	Setting credentials for user accounts	Credentials set for user accounts are randomly generated.
ISM-1228	Event log monitoring	Cyber security events are analysed in a timely manner to identify cyber security incidents.
ISM-1233	Key exchange	IKE version 2 is used for key exchange when establishing IPsec connections.
ISM-1234	Email content filtering	Email content filtering is implemented to filter potentially harmful content in email bodies and attachments.
ISM-1235	Hardening user application configurations	Extensions for user applications are restricted to an organisation-approved set.
ISM-1236	Allowing and blocking access to domain names	Malicious domain names, dynamic domain names and domain names that can be registered anonymously for free are blocked by web content filters.
ISM-1237	Using web content filters	Web content filtering is applied to outbound web traffic where appropriate.
ISM-1238	Secure software development	Threat modelling is used in support of the software development life cycle.
ISM-1239	Secure web application design and development	Robust web application frameworks are used in the development of web applications.
ISM-1240	Software input handling	Validation and sanitisation are performed on all input received over the internet by software.
ISM-1241	Web application output encoding	Output encoding is performed on all output produced by web applications.
ISM-1243	Database register	A database register is developed, implemented, maintained and regularly verified.
ISM-1245	Hardening server application configurations	All temporary installation files created during server application installation processes are removed after server applications have been installed.
ISM-1246	Hardening server application configurations	Server applications are hardened using ASD and vendor hardening guidance, with the most restrictive guidance taking precedence when conflicts occur.
ISM-1247	Hardening server application configurations	Unneeded user accounts, components, services and functionality of server applications are disabled or removed.
ISM-1249	Restricting privileges for server applications	Server applications are configured to run as a separate user account with the minimum privileges needed to perform their functions.
ISM-1250	Restricting privileges for server applications	The user accounts under which server applications run have limited access to their underlying server’s file system.
ISM-1255	Protecting database contents	Database users’ ability to access, insert, modify and remove database contents is restricted based on their duties or functions.
ISM-1256	Protecting databases	File-based access controls are applied to database files.
ISM-1260	Hardening server application configurations	Default user accounts or credentials for server applications, including for any pre-configured user accounts, are changed, disabled or removed during initial setup.
ISM-1263	Privileged access to systems	Unique privileged user accounts are used for administering individual server applications.
ISM-1268	Protecting database contents	The need-to-know principle is enforced for database contents through the application of minimum privileges, database views, database roles and data tokenisation.
ISM-1269	Functional separation between database servers and web servers	Database servers and web servers are functionally separated.
ISM-1270	Network environment	Database servers are placed on a different network segment to workstations.
ISM-1271	Network environment	Network access controls are implemented to restrict database server communications to strictly defined network resources that require access to the database server.
ISM-1272	Network environment	If only local access to a database is required, networking functionality of database management system applications is disabled or directed to listen solely to the localhost interface.
ISM-1273	Segregation of development, testing, staging and production database servers	Database servers for development, testing, staging and production environments are segregated.
ISM-1274	Segregation of development, testing, staging and production databases	Database contents from production environments are not used in non-production environments unless the non-production environment is secured to at least the same level as the production environment.
ISM-1275	Software interaction with databases	All queries to databases from software are filtered for legitimate content and correct syntax.
ISM-1276	Software interaction with databases	Parameterised queries or stored procedures, instead of dynamically generated queries, are used by software for database interactions.
ISM-1277	Communications between database servers and web servers	Data communicated between database servers and web servers is encrypted using Australian Signals Directorate-approved cryptography.
ISM-1278	Software interaction with databases	Software is designed or configured to provide as little error information as possible about the structure of databases.
ISM-1284	Content validation	Files imported or exported via gateways or CDSs undergo content validation.
ISM-1286	Content conversion	Files imported or exported via gateways or CDSs undergo content conversion.
ISM-1287	Content sanitisation	Files imported or exported via gateways or CDSs undergo content sanitisation.
ISM-1288	Antivirus scanning	Files imported or exported via gateways or CDSs undergo antivirus scanning using multiple different scanning engines.
ISM-1289	Archive files	Archive files imported or exported via gateways or CDSs are unpacked to undergo content filtering checks.
ISM-1290	Archive files	Archive files are unpacked in a controlled manner to ensure content filter performance or availability is not adversely affected.
ISM-1293	Encrypted files	Encrypted files imported or exported via gateways or CDSs are decrypted to undergo content filtering checks.
ISM-1294	Monitoring data import and export	Data transfer logs for systems are partially verified at least monthly.
ISM-1296	Physical access to network devices in public areas	Physical security is implemented to protect network devices in public areas from physical damage or unauthorised access.
ISM-1297	Privately owned mobile devices and desktop computers	Legal advice is sought prior to allowing privately owned mobile devices and desktop computers to access systems or data.
ISM-1298	Before travelling overseas with mobile devices	Personnel are advised of privacy and security risks when travelling overseas with mobile devices.
ISM-1299	Personnel awareness	Personnel are advised to take the following precautions when using mobile devices:

- never leave mobile devices or removable media unattended, including by placing them in checked-in luggage or leavi
ISM-1300	After travelling overseas with mobile devices	Upon returning from travelling overseas with mobile devices, personnel take the following actions:

- sanitise and reset mobile devices, including all removable media
- decommission any credentials th
ISM-1304	Network device hardening	Default user accounts or credentials for network devices, including for any pre-configured user accounts, are changed, disabled or removed during initial setup.
ISM-1311	Using the Simple Network Management Protocol	SNMP version 1 and SNMP version 2 are not used on networks.
ISM-1312	Using the Simple Network Management Protocol	All default SNMP community strings on network devices are changed and write access is disabled.
ISM-1314	Choosing wireless devices	All wireless devices are Wi-Fi Alliance certified.
ISM-1315	Administrative interfaces for wireless access points	The administrative interface on wireless access points is disabled for wireless network connections.
ISM-1316	Default settings	Default SSIDs of wireless access points are changed.
ISM-1317	Default settings	SSIDs of non-public wireless networks are not readily associated with an organisation, the location of their premises or the functionality of wireless networks.
ISM-1318	Default settings	SSID broadcasting is not disabled on wireless access points.
ISM-1319	Static addressing	Static addressing is not used for assigning IP addresses on wireless networks.
ISM-1320	Media Access Control address filtering	MAC address filtering is not used to restrict which devices can connect to wireless networks.
ISM-1321	802.1X authentication and key exchange	802.1X with EAP-TLS is used for mutual authentication and key exchange; with all other EAP methods disabled on supplicants and authentication servers.
ISM-1322	Evaluation of 802.1X implementations	Evaluated supplicants, authenticators and authentication servers are used for 802.1X authentication implementations.
ISM-1323	Generating and issuing X.509 certificates for authentication	X.509 certificates are required for devices and human users authenticating to networks using 802.1X.
ISM-1324	Generating and issuing X.509 certificates for authentication	X.509 certificates are generated using an evaluated certificate authority or hardware security module.
ISM-1327	Generating and issuing X.509 certificates for authentication	X.509 certificates are protected by logical and physical access controls and encryption, with those issued to human users requiring authentication before use.
ISM-1330	Caching 802.1X authentication outcomes	The PMK caching period is not set to greater than 1440 minutes (24 hours).
ISM-1332	Confidentiality and integrity of wireless network traffic	WPA3-Enterprise 192-bit mode is used to protect the confidentiality and integrity of all wireless network traffic.
ISM-1334	Interference between wireless networks	Wireless networks implement sufficient frequency separation from other wireless networks.
ISM-1335	Protecting management frames on wireless networks	Wireless access points enable the use of the 802.11w amendment to protect management frames.
ISM-1338	Wireless network footprint	Instead of deploying a small number of wireless access points that broadcast on high power, a greater number of wireless access points that use less broadcast power are deployed to achieve the desired
ISM-1341	Host-based intrusion detection and response solution	A HIPS or EDR solution is implemented on workstations.
ISM-1359	Removable media usage policy	A removable media usage policy is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1361	Media destruction equipment	Security Construction and Equipment Committee-approved equipment or ASIO-approved equipment is used when destroying media.
ISM-1364	Using virtual local area networks	Network devices managing VLANs terminate VLANs belonging to different security domains on separate physical network interfaces.
ISM-1366	Maintaining mobile device security	Security updates are applied to mobile devices as soon as they become available.
ISM-1369	Configuring Transport Layer Security	AES-GCM is used for encryption of TLS connections.
ISM-1370	Configuring Transport Layer Security	Only server-initiated secure renegotiation is used for TLS connections.
ISM-1372	Configuring Transport Layer Security	The ephemeral variant of DH or ECDH is used for key establishment of TLS connections.
ISM-1373	Configuring Transport Layer Security	Anonymous DH is not used for TLS connections.
ISM-1374	Configuring Transport Layer Security	SHA-2-based certificates are used for TLS connections.
ISM-1375	Configuring Transport Layer Security	SHA-2 is used for the Hash-based Message Authentication Code (HMAC) and pseudorandom function (PRF) for TLS connections.
ISM-1380	Separate privileged operating environments	Privileged human users use separate privileged and unprivileged operating environments.
ISM-1385	Administrative infrastructure	Administrative infrastructure is segregated from the wider network and the internet.
ISM-1386	Administrative infrastructure	Network management traffic can only originate from administrative infrastructure.
ISM-1387	Administrative infrastructure	Administrative activities are conducted through jump servers.
ISM-1389	Automated dynamic analysis	Executable files imported via gateways or CDSs are automatically executed in a sandbox to detect any suspicious behaviour.
ISM-1392	Application control	When implementing application control using path rules, only approved users can modify approved files and write to approved folders.
ISM-1395	Contractual security requirements with service providers	Service providers, including any subcontractors, provide an appropriate level of protection for any data entrusted to them or their services.
ISM-1400	Privately owned mobile devices and desktop computers	Personnel using privately owned mobile devices or desktop computers to access OFFICIAL: Sensitive or PROTECTED systems or data have enforced separation of classified data and personal data.
ISM-1401	Multi-factor authentication	Multi-factor authentication uses either: something people have and something people know, or something people have that is unlocked by something people know or are.
ISM-1402	Protecting credentials	Credentials stored on systems are protected by a password manager; a hardware security module; or by salting, hashing and stretching them before storage within a database.
ISM-1403	User account lockouts	User accounts, except for break glass accounts, are protected by fixed or risk-based lockout mechanisms aligned to a maximum of five failed logon attempts, with either indefinite or automated lockout 
ISM-1404	Suspension of access to systems	Unprivileged access to systems and their resources are disabled after 45 days of inactivity.
ISM-1405	Centralised event logging facility	A centralised event logging facility is implemented.
ISM-1406	Standard operating environments	SOEs are used for workstations and servers.
ISM-1407	Operating system releases and versions	The latest release, or the previous release, of operating systems are used.
ISM-1408	Operating system releases and versions	64-bit versions of operating systems are used.
ISM-1409	Hardening operating system configurations	Operating systems are hardened using ASD and vendor hardening guidance, with the most restrictive guidance taking precedence when conflicts occur.
ISM-1412	Web browsers	Web browsers are hardened using ASD and vendor hardening guidance, with the most restrictive guidance taking precedence when conflicts occur.
ISM-1416	Software firewall	A software firewall is implemented on workstations and servers to restrict inbound and outbound network connections to an organisation-approved set of applications and services.
ISM-1417	Antivirus application	An antivirus application is implemented on workstations and servers with:

- signature-based detection functionality enabled and set to a high level
- heuristic-based detection functionality enabled a
ISM-1418	Device access control	If there is no business requirement for reading from removable media and devices, such functionality is disabled via the use of a device access control application or by disabling external communicati
ISM-1419	Development, testing, staging and production environments	Development and modification of software only take place in development environments.
ISM-1420	Development, testing, staging and production environments	Data from production environments is not used in non-production environments unless the non-production environment is secured to at least the same level as the production environment.
ISM-1422	Authoritative source for software	Unauthorised access to the authoritative source for software is prevented.
ISM-1424	Web security policy response headers	Content-Security-Policy, Hypertext Transfer Protocol Strict Transport Security and X-Frame-Options are specified by web server software via security policy in response headers.
ISM-1427	Implementing gateways	Gateways perform ingress traffic filtering to detect and prevent IP source address spoofing.
ISM-1428	Using Internet Protocol version 6	Unless explicitly required, IPv6 tunnelling is disabled on all network devices.
ISM-1429	Using Internet Protocol version 6	IPv6 tunnelling is blocked by network security appliances at externally connected network boundaries.
ISM-1430	Using Internet Protocol version 6	Dynamically assigned IPv6 addresses are configured with Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol version 6 in a stateful manner with lease data stored in a centralised event logging facility.
ISM-1431	Denial-of-service attack mitigation strategies	Denial-of-service attack mitigation strategies are discussed with cloud service providers, specifically:

- their capacity to withstand denial-of-service attacks
- costs likely to be incurred as a res
ISM-1432	Denial-of-service attack mitigation strategies	Domain names for online services are protected via registrar locking and confirming that domain registration details are correct.
ISM-1436	Denial-of-service attack mitigation strategies	Critical online services are segregated from other online services that are more likely to be targeted as part of denial-of-service attacks.
ISM-1437	Cloud-based hosting of online services	Cloud service providers are used for hosting online services.
ISM-1438	Using content delivery networks	Where a high availability requirement exists for website hosting, CDNs that cache websites are used.
ISM-1439	Using content delivery networks	If using CDNs, disclosing the IP addresses of web servers under an organisation’s control (referred to as origin servers) is avoided and access to the origin servers is restricted to the CDNs and auth
ISM-1446	Using Elliptic Curve Cryptography	When using elliptic curve cryptography, a suitable curve from NIST SP 800-186 is used.
ISM-1449	Authentication mechanisms	SSH private keys are protected with a password or a key encryption key.
ISM-1450	Microphones and webcams	Microphones (including headsets and USB handsets) and webcams are not used with non-TOP SECRET workstations in TOP SECRET areas.
ISM-1451	Contractual security requirements with service providers	Types of data and its ownership is documented in contractual arrangements with service providers.
ISM-1452	Cyber supply chain risk management activities	A supply chain risk assessment is performed for suppliers of operating systems, applications, IT equipment, OT equipment and services to assess the impact to a system’s security risk profile.
ISM-1453	Configuring Transport Layer Security	Perfect Forward Secrecy (PFS) is used for TLS connections.
ISM-1454	Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service authentication	Communications between authenticators and a RADIUS server are encapsulated with an additional layer of encryption using RADIUS over Internet Protocol Security or RADIUS over Transport Layer Security.
ISM-1457	Using peripheral switches	Evaluated peripheral switches used for sharing peripherals between SECRET and TOP SECRET systems, or between SECRET or TOP SECRET systems belonging to different security domains, preferably complete a
ISM-1460	Functional separation between operating environments	When using a software-based isolation mechanism that consumes shared physical computing resources, the isolation mechanism is from a vendor that has demonstrated a commitment to Secure by Design and S
ISM-1461	Functional separation between operating environments	When using a software-based isolation mechanism that consumes shared physical computing resources for SECRET or TOP SECRET operating environments, the physical server and all operating environments ar
ISM-1467	User application releases	The latest release of email clients, office productivity suites, PDF applications, security products and web browsers, including their extensions, are used.
ISM-1470	Hardening user application configurations	Unneeded user accounts, components, services and functionality of user applications are disabled or removed.
ISM-1471	Application control	When implementing application control using publisher certificate rules, publisher names and product names are used.
ISM-1478	Overseeing the cyber security program	The CISO oversees their organisation’s cyber security program and ensures their organisation’s compliance with cyber security policy, standards, regulations and legislation.
ISM-1479	Functional separation between servers	Servers minimise communications with other servers at the network and file system level.
ISM-1480	Using peripheral switches	Evaluated peripheral switches used for sharing peripherals between SECRET or TOP SECRET systems and any non-SECRET or TOP SECRET systems complete a high assurance evaluation.
ISM-1482	Organisation-owned mobile devices and desktop computers	Personnel using organisation-owned mobile devices or desktop computers to access classified systems or data have enforced separation of classified data and personal data.
ISM-1483	Server application releases	The latest release of internet-facing server applications is used.
ISM-1485	Web browsers	Web browsers do not process web advertisements from the internet.
ISM-1486	Web browsers	Web browsers do not process Java from the internet.
ISM-1487	Office productivity suites	Only privileged human users responsible for checking that Microsoft Office macros are free of malicious code can write to and modify content within Trusted Locations.
ISM-1488	Office productivity suites	Microsoft Office macros in files originating from the internet are blocked.
ISM-1489	Office productivity suites	Microsoft Office macro security settings cannot be changed by human users.
ISM-1490	Application control	Application control is implemented on internet-facing servers.
ISM-1491	Hardening operating system configurations	Unprivileged human users are prevented from running script execution engines, including:

- Windows Script Host (cscript.exe and wscript.exe)
- PowerShell (powershell.exe, powershell_ise.exe and pwsh.
ISM-1492	Hardening operating system configurations	Operating system exploit protection functionality is enabled.
ISM-1493	Software registers	Software registers for workstations, servers, network devices and networked IT equipment are developed, implemented, maintained and regularly verified.
ISM-1501	Cessation of support	Operating systems that are no longer supported by vendors are replaced.
ISM-1502	Blocking suspicious emails	Emails arriving via an external connection where the email source address uses an internal domain, or internal subdomain, are blocked at the email gateway.
ISM-1504	Multi-factor authentication	Multi-factor authentication is used to authenticate human users to their organisation’s online services that process, store or communicate their organisation’s sensitive data.
ISM-1505	Multi-factor authentication	Multi-factor authentication is used to authenticate human users of data repositories.
ISM-1506	Configuring Secure Shell	The use of SSH version 1 is disabled for SSH connections.
ISM-1507	Privileged access to systems	Requests for privileged access to systems and their resources are validated when first requested.
ISM-1508	Privileged access to systems	Privileged access to systems and their resources is limited to only what is required for users to undertake their duties or functions.
ISM-1509	Privileged access to systems	Privileged access events are centrally logged.
ISM-1510	Digital preservation policy	A digital preservation policy is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1511	Performing and retaining backups	Backups of data, applications and settings are performed and retained in accordance with business criticality and business continuity requirements.
ISM-1515	Testing restoration of backups	Restoration of data, applications and settings from backups to a common point in time is tested as part of disaster recovery exercises.
ISM-1517	Media destruction methods	Equipment that is capable of reducing microform to a fine powder, with resultant particles not showing more than five consecutive characters per particle upon microscopic inspection, is used to destro
ISM-1520	System administrators for gateways	System administrators for gateways undergo appropriate employment screening, and where necessary hold an appropriate security clearance, based on the sensitivity or classification of gateways.
ISM-1521	Separation of data flows	CDSs implement protocol breaks at each network layer.
ISM-1522	Separation of data flows	CDSs implement independent security-enforcing functions for upward and downward network paths.
ISM-1523	Cross domain solution event logging	A sample of security-relevant events relating to data transfer policies are taken at least every three months and assessed against security policies for CDSs to identify any operational failures.
ISM-1524	Performing content filtering	Content filters used by CDSs undergo rigorous security testing to ensure they perform as expected and cannot be bypassed.
ISM-1525	System ownership and oversight	System owners register each system with its authorising officer.
ISM-1526	Protecting systems and their resources	System owners continuously monitor the security of each system, and manage associated cyber threats, security risks and security controls.
ISM-1528	Using firewalls	Evaluated firewalls are used between an organisation’s networks and public network infrastructure.
ISM-1529	Outsourced cloud services	Only community or private clouds are used for outsourced SECRET and TOP SECRET cloud services.
ISM-1530	Physical access to servers, network devices and cryptographic equipment	Classified servers, network devices and cryptographic equipment are secured in security containers suitable for their classification taking into account the combination of security zones they reside i
ISM-1532	Using virtual local area networks	VLANs are not used to separate network traffic between an organisation’s networks and public network infrastructure.
ISM-1533	Mobile device management policy	A mobile device management policy is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1534	Sanitising printers and multifunction devices	Printer ribbons in printers and MFDs are removed and destroyed.
ISM-1535	Data transfer processes and procedures	Processes, and supporting procedures, are developed, implemented and maintained to prevent AUSTEO, AGAO and REL data in textual and non-textual formats from being exported to unsuitable foreign system
ISM-1536	Software interaction with databases	All queries to databases from software, and any resulting crash or error messages, are centrally logged.
ISM-1537	Database event logging	Security-relevant events for databases are centrally logged, including:

- access or modification of particularly important content
- addition of new users, especially privileged users
- changes to us
ISM-1540	Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting and Conformance	DMARC records are configured for an organisation’s domains (including subdomains) such that emails are rejected if they do not pass DMARC checks.
ISM-1542	Office productivity suites	Microsoft Office is configured to prevent activation of Object Linking and Embedding packages.
ISM-1543	Bringing radio frequency and infrared devices into facilities	An authorised RF and IR device register for SECRET and TOP SECRET areas is developed, implemented, maintained and regularly verified.
ISM-1544	Application control	Microsoft’s recommended application blocklist is implemented.
ISM-1546	Authenticating to systems	Users are authenticated before they are granted access to a system and its resources.
ISM-1547	Data backup and restoration processes and procedures	Data backup processes, and supporting data backup procedures, are developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1548	Data backup and restoration processes and procedures	Data restoration processes, and supporting data restoration procedures, are developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1549	Media management policy	A media management policy is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1550	IT equipment disposal processes and procedures	IT equipment disposal processes, and supporting IT equipment disposal procedures, are developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1551	IT equipment management policy	An IT equipment management policy is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1552	Web application interactions	All web application content is offered exclusively using HTTPS.
ISM-1553	Configuring Transport Layer Security	TLS compression is disabled for TLS connections.
ISM-1554	Before travelling overseas with mobile devices	If travelling overseas with mobile devices to high or extreme risk countries, personnel are:

- issued with newly provisioned user accounts, mobile devices and removable media from a pool of dedicated
ISM-1555	Before travelling overseas with mobile devices	Before travelling overseas with mobile devices, personnel take the following actions:

- record all details of the mobile devices being taken, such as product types, serial numbers and International M
ISM-1556	After travelling overseas with mobile devices	If returning from travelling overseas with mobile devices to high or extreme risk countries, personnel take the following additional actions:

- reset credentials used with mobile devices, including t
ISM-1557	Password strength	Passwords used for single-factor authentication on SECRET systems are a minimum of 17 characters.
ISM-1558	Password strength	Passwords using a sequence of words for single-factor authentication are not constructed using:

- a list of categorised words
- a real sentence in a natural language
- song lyrics, movie or televisio
ISM-1559	Password strength	Passwords used for multi-factor authentication on non-classified, OFFICIAL: Sensitive and PROTECTED systems are a minimum of 6 characters.
ISM-1560	Password strength	Passwords used for multi-factor authentication on SECRET systems are a minimum of 8 characters.
ISM-1561	Password strength	Passwords used for multi-factor authentication on TOP SECRET systems are a minimum of 10 characters.
ISM-1562	Video conferencing and Internet Protocol telephony infrastructure hardening	Video conferencing and IP telephony infrastructure is hardened.
ISM-1563	Security assessment report	At the conclusion of a security control assessment for a system, a security assessment report is produced by the assessor and covers:

- the scope of the security control assessment
- the system’s str
ISM-1564	Plan of action and milestones	At the conclusion of a security control assessment for a system, a plan of action and milestones is produced by the system owner.
ISM-1565	Providing cyber security awareness training	Tailored privileged user training is undertaken annually by all personnel with privileged access to systems and their resources.
ISM-1566	Unprivileged access to systems	Use of unprivileged access is centrally logged.
ISM-1567	Cyber supply chain risk management activities	Suppliers identified as high risk by a cyber supply chain risk assessment are not used.
ISM-1568	Cyber supply chain risk management activities	Operating systems, applications, IT equipment, OT equipment and services are procured from suppliers that have demonstrated a commitment to the security of their products and services.
ISM-1569	Cyber supply chain risk management activities	A shared responsibility model is created, documented and shared between suppliers and their customers to articulate the security responsibilities of each party.
ISM-1570	Assessment of outsourced cloud service providers	Outsourced cloud service providers and their non-classified, OFFICIAL: Sensitive, PROTECTED and SECRET cloud services undergo an IRAP assessment, using the latest release of the ISM available prior to
ISM-1571	Contractual security requirements with service providers	The right to verify compliance with security requirements is documented in contractual arrangements with service providers.
ISM-1572	Contractual security requirements with service providers	The regions or availability zones where data will be processed, stored and communicated, as well as a minimum notification period for any configuration changes, is documented in contractual arrangemen
ISM-1573	Contractual security requirements with service providers	Access to all logs relating to an organisation’s data and services is documented in contractual arrangements with service providers.
ISM-1574	Contractual security requirements with service providers	The storage of data in a portable manner that enables backups, service migration and service decommissioning without any loss of data is documented in contractual arrangements with service providers.
ISM-1575	Contractual security requirements with service providers	A minimum notification period of one month for the cessation of any services by a service provider is documented in contractual arrangements with service providers.
ISM-1576	Access to systems by service providers	If an organisation’s systems are accessed or administered by a service provider in an unauthorised manner, it is treated as a cyber security incident and the organisation is immediately notified.
ISM-1577	Network segmentation and segregation	An organisation’s networks are segregated from their service providers’ networks.
ISM-1579	Capacity and availability planning and monitoring for online services	Cloud service providers’ ability to scale resources dynamically in response to genuine spikes in demand is discussed and verified as part of capacity and availability planning for online services.
ISM-1580	Capacity and availability planning and monitoring for online services	Where a high availability requirement exists for online services, the services are architected to automatically transition between availability zones.
ISM-1581	Capacity and availability planning and monitoring for online services	Continuous real-time monitoring of the capacity and availability of online services is performed.
ISM-1582	Application control	Application control rulesets are validated at least annually.
ISM-1583	User identification	Personnel who are contractors are identified as such.
ISM-1584	Hardening operating system configurations	Unprivileged users are prevented from bypassing, disabling or modifying security functionality of operating systems.
ISM-1585	Web browsers	Web browser security settings cannot be changed by human users.
ISM-1586	Monitoring data import and export	Data transfer logs are used to record all data imports and exports from systems.
ISM-1587	Annual reporting of system security status	System owners report the security status of each system to its authorising officer at least annually.
ISM-1588	Standard operating environments	SOEs are reviewed and updated at least annually.
ISM-1589	Email server transport encryption	MTA-STS is enabled to prevent the unencrypted transfer of emails between email servers.
ISM-1590	Changing credentials	Credentials for user accounts are changed if:

- they are compromised or suspected of being compromised
- they are discovered stored on systems in the clear
- they are discovered being transferred acr
ISM-1591	Suspension of access to systems	Access to systems and their resources are removed or suspended as soon as practicable when users are detected undertaking malicious activities.
ISM-1592	Application management	Unprivileged human users do not have the ability to install unapproved applications.
ISM-1593	Setting credentials for user accounts	Human users provide sufficient evidence to verify their identity when first requesting credentials, when requesting the reset of any credentials, when requesting the temporary disabling of any credent
ISM-1594	Setting credentials for user accounts	Credentials for human users are provided via a secure communications channel or, if not possible, split into two parts with one part provided to the human user and the other part provided to their sup
ISM-1595	Setting credentials for user accounts	Credentials provided to human users are changed on first use.
ISM-1596	Setting credentials for user accounts	Credentials are not reused by users across different systems.
ISM-1597	Protecting credentials	Credentials are obscured as they are entered into systems.
ISM-1598	Inspection of IT equipment following maintenance or repairs	Following maintenance or repairs to IT equipment, it is inspected to confirm that it retains its approved configuration and that no unauthorised modifications have been made.
ISM-1599	Handling IT equipment	IT equipment is handled in a manner suitable for its sensitivity or classification.
ISM-1600	Sanitising media before first use	Media is sanitised before it is used for the first time.
ISM-1601	Hardening operating system configurations	Microsoft’s attack surface reduction rules are implemented.
ISM-1602	Communication of cyber security documentation	Cyber security documentation, including notification of subsequent changes, is communicated to all stakeholders.
ISM-1603	Insecure authentication methods	Authentication methods susceptible to replay attacks are disabled.
ISM-1604	Functional separation between operating environments	When using a software-based isolation mechanism that consumes shared physical computing resources, the configuration of the isolation mechanism is hardened by removing unneeded functionality and restr
ISM-1605	Functional separation between operating environments	When using a software-based isolation mechanism that consumes shared physical computing resources, the underlying operating system is hardened.
ISM-1606	Functional separation between operating environments	When using a software-based isolation mechanism that consumes shared physical computing resources, patches, updates or vendor mitigations for vulnerabilities are applied to the isolation mechanism and
ISM-1607	Functional separation between operating environments	When using a software-based isolation mechanism that consumes shared physical resources, integrity monitoring and centralised event logging is performed for the isolation mechanism and underlying oper
ISM-1608	Standard operating environments	SOEs provided by third parties are scanned for malicious code and configurations.
ISM-1609	Handling and containing intrusions	System owners are consulted before allowing intrusion activity to continue on a system for the purpose of collecting further data or evidence.
ISM-1610	Emergency access to systems	A method of emergency access to systems and their resources is documented and tested at least once when initially implemented and each time fundamental information technology infrastructure changes oc
ISM-1611	Emergency access to systems	Break glass accounts are only used when normal authentication processes cannot be used.
ISM-1612	Emergency access to systems	Break glass accounts are only used for specific authorised activities.
ISM-1613	Emergency access to systems	Use of break glass accounts is centrally logged.
ISM-1614	Emergency access to systems	Break glass account credentials are changed by the account custodian after they are accessed by any other party.
ISM-1615	Emergency access to systems	Break glass accounts are tested after credentials are changed.
ISM-1616	Vulnerability disclosure program	A vulnerability disclosure program is implemented to assist with the secure development and maintenance of products and services.
ISM-1617	Overseeing the cyber security program	The CISO regularly reviews and updates their organisation’s cyber security program to ensure its relevance in addressing cyber threats and harnessing business and cyber security opportunities.
ISM-1618	Overseeing cyber security incident response activities	The CISO oversees their organisation’s response to cyber security incidents.
ISM-1619	Setting credentials for built-in Administrator accounts, break glass accounts, local administrator accounts and service accounts	Service accounts are created as group Managed Service Accounts.
ISM-1620	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services security group memberships	Privileged user accounts are members of the Protected Users security group.
ISM-1621	PowerShell	Windows PowerShell 2.0 is disabled or removed.
ISM-1622	PowerShell	PowerShell is configured to use Constrained Language Mode.
ISM-1623	PowerShell	PowerShell module logging, script block logging and transcription events are centrally logged.
ISM-1624	PowerShell	PowerShell script block logs are protected by Protected Event Logging functionality.
ISM-1625	Insider threat mitigation program	An insider threat mitigation program is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1626	Insider threat mitigation program	Legal advice is sought regarding the development and implementation of an insider threat mitigation program.
ISM-1627	Blocking anonymity network traffic	Inbound network connections from anonymity networks are blocked.
ISM-1628	Blocking anonymity network traffic	Outbound network connections to anonymity networks are blocked.
ISM-1629	Using Diffie-Hellman	When using DH for agreeing on encryption session keys, a modulus and associated parameters are selected according to NIST SP 800-56A Rev. 3.
ISM-1631	Cyber supply chain risk management activities	Suppliers of operating systems, applications, IT equipment, OT equipment and services associated with systems are identified.
ISM-1632	Cyber supply chain risk management activities	Operating systems, applications, IT equipment, OT equipment and services are procured from suppliers that have a strong track record of maintaining the security of their own systems.
ISM-1633	Protecting systems and their resources	System owners, in consultation with each system’s authorising officer, determine the system boundary, business criticality, and security and resilience objectives for each system based on an assessmen
ISM-1634	Protecting systems and their resources	System owners, in consultation with each system’s authorising officer, select security controls for each system and tailor them to achieve desired security and resilience objectives.
ISM-1635	Protecting systems and their resources	System owners implement security controls for each system and its operating environment.
ISM-1636	Protecting systems and their resources	System owners, in consultation with each system’s authorising officer, ensure security controls for each non-classified, OFFICIAL: Sensitive, PROTECTED and SECRET system and its operating environment 
ISM-1637	Outsourced cloud services	An outsourced cloud service register is developed, implemented, maintained and regularly verified.
ISM-1638	Outsourced cloud services	An outsourced cloud service register contains the following for each outsourced cloud service:

- cloud service provider’s name
- cloud service’s name
- purpose for using the cloud service
- sensitivi
ISM-1639	Labelling building management cables	Building management cables are labelled with their purpose in black writing on a yellow background, with a minimum size of 2.5 cm x 1 cm, and attached at five-metre intervals.
ISM-1640	Labelling cables for foreign systems in Australian facilities	Cables for foreign systems installed in Australian facilities are labelled at inspection points.
ISM-1641	Degaussing magnetic media	Following the use of a degausser, magnetic media is physically damaged by deforming any internal platters.
ISM-1642	Sanitising media before first use	Media is sanitised before it is reused in a different security domain.
ISM-1643	Software registers	Software registers contain versions and patch histories of applications, drivers, operating systems and firmware.
ISM-1644	Using mobile devices in public spaces	Sensitive or classified phone calls and conversations are not conducted in public locations unless care is taken to reduce the chance of conversations being overheard.
ISM-1645	Floor plan diagrams	Floor plan diagrams are developed, implemented, maintained and regularly verified.
ISM-1646	Floor plan diagrams	Floor plan diagrams contain the following:

- cable paths (including ingress and egress points between floors)
- cable reticulation system and conduit paths
- floor concentration boxes
- wall outlet b
ISM-1647	Suspension of access to systems	Privileged access to systems and their resources are disabled after 12 months unless revalidated.
ISM-1648	Suspension of access to systems	Privileged access to systems and their resources are disabled after 45 days of inactivity.
ISM-1649	Privileged access to systems	Just-in-time administration is used for the administration of systems and their resources.
ISM-1650	Privileged access to systems	Privileged user account and security group management events are centrally logged.
ISM-1654	Hardening operating system configurations	Internet Explorer 11 is disabled or removed.
ISM-1655	Hardening operating system configurations	.NET Framework 3.5 (includes .NET 2.0 and 3.0) is disabled or removed.
ISM-1656	Application control	Application control is implemented on non-internet-facing servers.
ISM-1657	Application control	Application control restricts the execution of executables, libraries, scripts, installers, compiled HTML, HTML applications and control panel applets to an organisation-approved set.
ISM-1658	Application control	Application control restricts the execution of drivers to an organisation-approved set.
ISM-1659	Application control	Microsoft’s vulnerable driver blocklist is implemented.
ISM-1660	Application control	Allowed and blocked application control events are centrally logged.
ISM-1667	Office productivity suites	Microsoft Office is blocked from creating child processes.
ISM-1668	Office productivity suites	Microsoft Office is blocked from creating executable content.
ISM-1669	Office productivity suites	Microsoft Office is blocked from injecting code into other processes.
ISM-1670	Portable Document Format applications	PDF applications are blocked from creating child processes.
ISM-1671	Office productivity suites	Microsoft Office macros are disabled for human users that do not have a demonstrated business requirement.
ISM-1672	Office productivity suites	Microsoft Office macro antivirus scanning is enabled.
ISM-1673	Office productivity suites	Microsoft Office macros are blocked from making Win32 API calls.
ISM-1674	Office productivity suites	Only Microsoft Office macros running from within a sandboxed environment, a Trusted Location or that are digitally signed by a trusted publisher are allowed to execute.
ISM-1675	Office productivity suites	Microsoft Office macros digitally signed by an untrusted publisher cannot be enabled via the Message Bar or Backstage View.
ISM-1676	Office productivity suites	Microsoft Office’s list of trusted publishers is validated at least annually.
ISM-1679	Multi-factor authentication	Multi-factor authentication is used to authenticate human users to third-party online services that process, store or communicate their organisation’s sensitive data.
ISM-1680	Multi-factor authentication	Multi-factor authentication (where available) is used to authenticate human users to third-party online services that process, store or communicate their organisation’s non-sensitive data.
ISM-1681	Multi-factor authentication	Multi-factor authentication is used to authenticate customers to online customer services that process, store or communicate sensitive customer data.
ISM-1682	Multi-factor authentication	Multi-factor authentication used for authenticating human users of systems is phishing-resistant.
ISM-1683	Multi-factor authentication	Successful and unsuccessful multi-factor authentication events are centrally logged.
ISM-1685	Setting credentials for built-in Administrator accounts, break glass accounts, local administrator accounts and service accounts	Credentials for break glass accounts, local administrator accounts and service accounts are long, unique, unpredictable and managed.
ISM-1686	Protecting credentials	Credential Guard functionality is enabled.
ISM-1687	Separate privileged operating environments	Privileged operating environments are not virtualised within unprivileged operating environments.
ISM-1688	Separate privileged operating environments	Unprivileged user accounts cannot be used to log on to privileged operating environments.
ISM-1689	Separate privileged operating environments	Privileged user accounts (excluding local administrator accounts) cannot be used to log on to unprivileged operating environments.
ISM-1690	Mitigating known vulnerabilities	Patches, updates or other vendor mitigations for vulnerabilities in online services are applied within two weeks of release when vulnerabilities are assessed as non-critical by vendors and no working 
ISM-1691	Mitigating known vulnerabilities	Patches, updates or other vendor mitigations for vulnerabilities in office productivity suites, web browsers and their extensions, email clients, PDF applications, and security products are applied wi
ISM-1692	Mitigating known vulnerabilities	Patches, updates or other vendor mitigations for vulnerabilities in office productivity suites, web browsers and their extensions, email clients, PDF applications, and security products are applied wi
ISM-1693	Mitigating known vulnerabilities	Patches, updates or other vendor mitigations for vulnerabilities in applications other than office productivity suites, web browsers and their extensions, email clients, PDF applications, and security
ISM-1694	Mitigating known vulnerabilities	Patches, updates or other vendor mitigations for vulnerabilities in operating systems of internet-facing servers and internet-facing network devices are applied within two weeks of release when vulner
ISM-1695	Mitigating known vulnerabilities	Patches, updates or other vendor mitigations for vulnerabilities in operating systems of workstations, non-internet-facing servers and non-internet-facing network devices are applied within one month 
ISM-1696	Mitigating known vulnerabilities	Patches, updates or other vendor mitigations for vulnerabilities in operating systems of workstations, non-internet-facing servers and non-internet-facing network devices are applied within 48 hours o
ISM-1697	Mitigating known vulnerabilities	Patches, updates or other vendor mitigations for vulnerabilities in drivers are applied within one month of release when vulnerabilities are assessed as non-critical by vendors and no working exploits
ISM-1698	Vulnerability scanning	A vulnerability scanner is used at least daily to identify missing patches or updates for vulnerabilities in online services.
ISM-1699	Vulnerability scanning	A vulnerability scanner is used at least weekly to identify missing patches or updates for vulnerabilities in office productivity suites, web browsers and their extensions, email clients, PDF applicat
ISM-1700	Vulnerability scanning	A vulnerability scanner is used at least fortnightly to identify missing patches or updates for vulnerabilities in applications other than office productivity suites, web browsers and their extensions
ISM-1701	Vulnerability scanning	A vulnerability scanner is used at least daily to identify missing patches or updates for vulnerabilities in operating systems of internet-facing servers and internet-facing network devices.
ISM-1702	Vulnerability scanning	A vulnerability scanner is used at least fortnightly to identify missing patches or updates for vulnerabilities in operating systems of workstations, non-internet-facing servers and non-internet-facin
ISM-1703	Vulnerability scanning	A vulnerability scanner is used at least fortnightly to identify missing patches or updates for vulnerabilities in drivers.
ISM-1704	Cessation of support	Office productivity suites, web browsers and their extensions, email clients, PDF applications, Adobe Flash Player, and security products that are no longer supported by vendors are removed.
ISM-1705	Backup access	Privileged user accounts (excluding backup administrator accounts) cannot access backups belonging to other user accounts.
ISM-1706	Backup access	Privileged user accounts (excluding backup administrator accounts) cannot access their own backups.
ISM-1707	Backup modification and deletion	Privileged user accounts (excluding backup administrator accounts) are prevented from modifying and deleting backups.
ISM-1708	Backup modification and deletion	Backup administrator accounts are prevented from modifying and deleting backups during their retention period.
ISM-1710	Default settings	Settings for wireless access points are hardened.
ISM-1711	802.1X authentication and key exchange	User identity confidentiality is used if available with EAP-TLS implementations.
ISM-1712	Fast Basic Service Set Transition	The use of FT (802.11r) is disabled unless authenticator-to-authenticator communications are secured by an ASD-Approved Cryptographic Protocol.
ISM-1713	Removable media register	A removable media register is developed, implemented, maintained and regularly verified.
ISM-1717	Vulnerability disclosure program	A ‘security.txt’ file is hosted for each of an organisation’s internet-facing website domains to assist in the responsible disclosure of vulnerabilities in the organisation’s products and services.
ISM-1718	Cable colours	SECRET cables are coloured salmon pink.
ISM-1719	Cable colours	TOP SECRET cables are coloured red.
ISM-1720	Wall outlet box colours	SECRET wall outlet boxes are coloured salmon pink.
ISM-1721	Wall outlet box colours	TOP SECRET wall outlet boxes are coloured red.
ISM-1722	Media destruction methods	Electrostatic memory devices are destroyed using a furnace/incinerator, hammer mill, disintegrator or grinder/sander.
ISM-1723	Media destruction methods	Magnetic floppy disks are destroyed using a furnace/incinerator, hammer mill, disintegrator, degausser or by cutting.
ISM-1724	Media destruction methods	Magnetic hard disks are destroyed using a furnace/incinerator, hammer mill, disintegrator, grinder/sander or degausser.
ISM-1725	Media destruction methods	Magnetic tapes are destroyed using a furnace/incinerator, hammer mill, disintegrator, degausser or by cutting.
ISM-1726	Media destruction methods	Optical disks are destroyed using a furnace/incinerator, hammer mill, disintegrator, grinder/sander or by cutting.
ISM-1727	Media destruction methods	Semiconductor memory is destroyed using a furnace/incinerator, hammer mill or disintegrator.
ISM-1728	Treatment of media waste particles	The resulting media waste particles from the destruction of SECRET media is stored and handled as OFFICIAL if less than or equal to 3 mm, PROTECTED if greater than 3 mm and less than or equal to 6 mm,
ISM-1729	Treatment of media waste particles	The resulting media waste particles from the destruction of TOP SECRET media is stored and handled as OFFICIAL if less than or equal to 3 mm, or SECRET if greater than 3 mm and less than or equal to 9
ISM-1730	Software bill of materials	A software bill of materials is produced and made available to consumers of software.
ISM-1731	Handling and containing intrusions	Planning and coordination of intrusion remediation activities are conducted using trusted systems separate from a compromised system.
ISM-1732	Handling and containing intrusions	Intrusion remediation activities are coordinated and sequenced to minimise opportunities for re-compromise of a system while balancing operational risk and business continuity requirements.
ISM-1735	Media that cannot be successfully sanitised	Media that cannot be successfully sanitised is destroyed prior to its disposal.
ISM-1736	Managed services	A managed service register is developed, implemented, maintained and regularly verified.
ISM-1737	Managed services	A managed service register contains the following for each managed service:

- managed service provider’s name
- managed service’s name
- purpose for using the managed service
- sensitivity or classif
ISM-1738	Contractual security requirements with service providers	The right to verify compliance with security requirements documented in contractual arrangements with service providers is regularly exercised.
ISM-1739	Approval of cyber security documentation	A system’s security architecture is approved prior to the development of the system.
ISM-1740	Managing requests to change banking details or transfer funds	Personnel dealing with banking details and payment requests are advised of what business email compromise is and how to manage and report it.
ISM-1741	IT equipment destruction processes and procedures	IT equipment destruction processes, and supporting IT equipment destruction procedures, are developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1742	Sanitising IT equipment	IT equipment that cannot be sanitised is destroyed.
ISM-1743	Operating system selection	Vendors that have demonstrated a commitment to Secure by Design and Secure by Default principles and practices, including secure programming practices and either memory-safe programming languages or l
ISM-1745	Hardening operating system configurations	Early Launch Antimalware, Secure Boot, Trusted Boot and Measured Boot functionality is enabled.
ISM-1746	Application control	When implementing application control using path rules, only approved users can change file system permissions for approved files and folders.
ISM-1748	Email clients	Email client security settings cannot be changed by human users.
ISM-1749	Protecting credentials	Cached credentials are limited to one previous logon.
ISM-1750	Administrative infrastructure	Administrative infrastructure for critical servers, high-value servers and regular servers is segregated from each other.
ISM-1751	Mitigating known vulnerabilities	Patches, updates or other vendor mitigations for vulnerabilities in operating systems of IT equipment other than workstations, servers and network devices are applied within one month of release when 
ISM-1752	Vulnerability scanning	A vulnerability scanner is used at least fortnightly to identify missing patches or updates for vulnerabilities in operating systems of IT equipment other than workstations, servers and network device
ISM-1753	Cessation of support	Internet-facing network devices that are no longer supported by vendors are replaced.
ISM-1754	Reporting and resolving vulnerabilities	Vulnerabilities identified in software are resolved in a timely manner.
ISM-1755	Vulnerability disclosure program	A vulnerability disclosure policy is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1756	Vulnerability disclosure program	Vulnerability disclosure processes, and supporting vulnerability disclosure procedures, are developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1759	Using Diffie-Hellman	When using DH for agreeing on encryption session keys, a modulus of at least 3072 bits is used, preferably 3072 bits.
ISM-1761	Using Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman	When using ECDH for agreeing on encryption session keys, NIST P-256, P-384 or P-521 curves are used, preferably the NIST P-384 curve.
ISM-1762	Using Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman	When using ECDH for agreeing on encryption session keys, NIST P-384 or P-521 curves are used, preferably the NIST P-384 curve.
ISM-1763	Using the Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm	When using ECDSA for digital signatures, NIST P-256, P-384 or P-521 curves are used, preferably the NIST P-384 curve.
ISM-1764	Using the Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm	When using ECDSA for digital signatures, NIST P-384 or P-521 curves are used, preferably the NIST P-384 curve.
ISM-1765	Using Rivest-Shamir-Adleman	When using RSA for digital signatures, and transporting encryption session keys (and similar keys), a modulus of at least 3072 bits is used, preferably 3072 bits.
ISM-1766	Using Secure Hashing Algorithms	When using SHA-2 for hashing, an output size of at least 224 bits is used, preferably SHA-384 or SHA-512.
ISM-1767	Using Secure Hashing Algorithms	When using SHA-2 for hashing, an output size of at least 256 bits is used, preferably SHA-384 or SHA-512.
ISM-1768	Using Secure Hashing Algorithms	When using SHA-2 for hashing, an output size of at least 384 bits is used, preferably SHA-384 or SHA-512.
ISM-1769	Using symmetric cryptographic algorithms	When using AES for encryption, AES-128, AES-192 or AES-256 is used, preferably AES-256.
ISM-1770	Using symmetric cryptographic algorithms	When using AES for encryption, AES-192 or AES-256 is used, preferably AES-256.
ISM-1771	Encryption algorithms	AES is used for encrypting IPsec connections, preferably ENCR_AES_GCM_16.
ISM-1772	Pseudorandom function	PRF_HMAC_SHA2_256, PRF_HMAC_SHA2_384 or PRF_HMAC_SHA2_512 is used for IPsec connections, preferably PRF_HMAC_SHA2_512.
ISM-1773	System administrators for gateways	System administrators for gateways that connect to Australian Government Access Only networks are Australian nationals or seconded foreign nationals.
ISM-1774	System administration of gateways	Gateways are managed via a secure path isolated from all connected networks.
ISM-1778	Manual import of data	When manually importing data to systems, all data that fails security checks is quarantined until reviewed and subsequently approved or not approved for release.
ISM-1779	Manual export of data	When manually exporting data from systems, all data that fails security checks is quarantined until reviewed and subsequently approved or not approved for release.
ISM-1780	Secure software development	SecDevOps practices are used for software development.
ISM-1781	Network encryption	All data communicated over network infrastructure is encrypted using ASD-approved cryptography.
ISM-1782	Protective Domain Name System Services	A protective DNS service is used to block access to known malicious domain names.
ISM-1783	Border Gateway Protocol routing security	Public IP addresses controlled by, or used by, an organisation are signed by valid ROA records.
ISM-1784	Cyber security incident management policy	The cyber security incident management policy, including the associated cyber security incident response plan, is exercised at least annually.
ISM-1785	Supplier relationship management	A supplier relationship management policy is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1786	Supplier relationship management	An approved supplier list is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1787	Sourcing operating systems, applications, IT equipment, OT equipment and services	Operating systems, applications, IT equipment, OT equipment and services are sourced from approved suppliers.
ISM-1788	Sourcing operating systems, applications, IT equipment, OT equipment and services	Multiple potential suppliers are identified for sourcing critical operating systems, applications, IT equipment, OT equipment and services.
ISM-1789	Sourcing operating systems, applications, IT equipment, OT equipment and services	Sufficient spares of critical IT equipment and OT equipment are sourced and kept in reserve.
ISM-1790	Delivery of operating systems, applications, IT equipment, OT equipment and services	Operating systems, applications, IT equipment, OT equipment and services are delivered in a manner that maintains their integrity.
ISM-1791	Delivery of operating systems, applications, IT equipment, OT equipment and services	The integrity of operating systems, applications, IT equipment, OT equipment and services are assessed as part of acceptance of products and services.
ISM-1792	Delivery of operating systems, applications, IT equipment, OT equipment and services	The authenticity of operating systems, applications, IT equipment, OT equipment and services are assessed as part of acceptance of products and services.
ISM-1793	Assessment of managed service providers	Managed service providers and their non-classified, OFFICIAL: Sensitive, PROTECTED and SECRET managed services undergo an Infosec Registered Assessor Program (IRAP) assessment, using the latest releas
ISM-1794	Contractual security requirements with service providers	A minimum notification period of one month by service providers for significant changes to their own service provider arrangements is documented in contractual arrangements with service providers.
ISM-1795	Setting credentials for built-in Administrator accounts, break glass accounts, local administrator accounts and service accounts	Credentials for built-in Administrator accounts, break glass accounts, local administrator accounts and service accounts are a minimum of 30 characters.
ISM-1796	Secure software development	Files containing executable content are digitally signed by a certificate with a verifiable chain of trust as part of software development.
ISM-1797	Secure software development	Installers, patches and updates are digitally signed or provided with cryptographic checksums as part of software development.
ISM-1798	Secure software development	Secure configuration guidance, in the form of a hardening guide or loosening guide, is produced and made available to consumers as part of software development.
ISM-1799	Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting and Conformance	Incoming emails are rejected if they do not pass DMARC checks.
ISM-1800	Network device integrity	Network devices are flashed with trusted firmware before they are used for the first time.
ISM-1801	Regularly restarting network devices	Network devices are restarted at least monthly.
ISM-1802	High Assurance Cryptographic Equipment	HACE are issued an Approval for Use by ASD and operated in accordance with the latest version of their associated Australian Communications Security Instructions.
ISM-1803	Cyber security incident register	A cyber security incident register contains the following for each cyber security incident:

- the date the cyber security incident occurred
- the date the cyber security incident was discovered
- a d
ISM-1804	Contractual security requirements with service providers	Break clauses associated with failure to meet security requirements are documented in contractual arrangements with service providers.
ISM-1805	Denial of service response plan	A denial of service response plan for video conferencing and IP telephony services contains the following:

- how to identify signs of a denial-of-service attack
- how to identify the source of a deni
ISM-1806	Hardening user application configurations	Default user accounts or credentials for user applications, including for any pre-configured user accounts, are changed, disabled or removed during initial setup.
ISM-1807	Vulnerability scanning	An automated method of asset discovery is used at least fortnightly to support the detection of assets for subsequent vulnerability scanning activities.
ISM-1808	Vulnerability scanning	A vulnerability scanner with an up-to-date vulnerability database is used for vulnerability scanning activities.
ISM-1809	Cessation of support	When applications, operating systems, network devices or networked IT equipment that are no longer supported by vendors cannot be immediately removed or replaced, compensating security controls are im
ISM-1810	Performing and retaining backups	Backups of data, applications and settings are synchronised to enable restoration to a common point in time.
ISM-1811	Performing and retaining backups	Backups of data, applications and settings are retained in a secure and resilient manner.
ISM-1812	Backup access	Unprivileged user accounts cannot access backups belonging to other user accounts.
ISM-1813	Backup access	Unprivileged user accounts cannot access their own backups.
ISM-1814	Backup modification and deletion	Unprivileged user accounts are prevented from modifying and deleting backups.
ISM-1815	Centralised event logging facility	Event logs are protected from unauthorised modification and deletion.
ISM-1816	Authoritative source for software	Unauthorised modification of the authoritative source for software is prevented.
ISM-1817	Network application programming interfaces	Authentication and authorisation of clients is performed when clients call network APIs that facilitate access to data not authorised for release into the public domain and are accessible over the int
ISM-1818	Network application programming interfaces	Authentication and authorisation of clients is performed when clients call network APIs that facilitate modification of data and are accessible over the internet.
ISM-1819	Enacting cyber security incident response plans	Following the identification of a cyber security incident, the cyber security incident response plan is enacted.
ISM-1820	Cable colours	Cables for individual systems use a consistent colour.
ISM-1821	Common cable bundles and conduits	TOP SECRET cables, when bundled together or run in conduit, are run exclusively in their own individual cable bundle or conduit.
ISM-1822	Wall outlet box colours	Wall outlet boxes for individual systems use a consistent colour.
ISM-1823	Office productivity suites	Office productivity suite security settings cannot be changed by human users.
ISM-1824	Portable Document Format applications	PDF application security settings cannot be changed by human users.
ISM-1825	Security products	Security product security settings cannot be changed by human users.
ISM-1826	Server application selection	Vendors that have demonstrated a commitment to Secure by Design and Secure by Default principles and practices, including secure programming practices and either memory-safe programming languages or l
ISM-1827	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services	Microsoft AD DS domain controllers are administered using dedicated domain administrator user accounts that are not used to administer other systems.
ISM-1828	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services	The Print Spooler service is disabled on Microsoft AD DS domain controllers.
ISM-1829	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services	Passwords are not stored in Group Policy Preferences.
ISM-1830	Microsoft Active Directory services	Security-relevant events for Microsoft AD DS domain controllers, Microsoft AD CS servers, Microsoft AD FS servers and Microsoft Entra Connect servers are centrally logged.
ISM-1832	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services account hardening	Only service accounts and computer accounts are configured with Service Principal Names (SPNs).
ISM-1833	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services account hardening	User accounts are provisioned with the minimum privileges required.
ISM-1834	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services account hardening	Duplicate SPNs do not exist within the domain.
ISM-1835	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services account hardening	Privileged user accounts are configured as sensitive and cannot be delegated.
ISM-1836	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services account hardening	User accounts require Kerberos pre-authentication.
ISM-1838	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services account hardening	The UserPassword attribute for user accounts is not used.
ISM-1839	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services account hardening	Account properties accessible by unprivileged users are not used to store passwords.
ISM-1840	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services account hardening	User account passwords do not use reversible encryption.
ISM-1841	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services account hardening	Unprivileged user accounts cannot add machines to the domain.
ISM-1842	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services account hardening	Dedicated privileged service accounts are used to add machines to the domain.
ISM-1843	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services account hardening	User accounts with unconstrained delegation are reviewed at least annually, and those without an SPN or demonstrated business requirement are removed.
ISM-1844	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services account hardening	Computer accounts that are not Microsoft AD DS domain controllers are not trusted for delegation to services.
ISM-1845	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services security group memberships	When a user account is disabled, it is removed from all security group memberships.
ISM-1846	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services security group memberships	The Pre-Windows 2000 Compatible Access security group does not contain user accounts.
ISM-1847	Changing credentials	Credentials for the Kerberos Key Distribution Center’s service account (KRBTGT) are changed twice, allowing for replication to all Microsoft AD DS domain controllers in-between each change, if the dom
ISM-1848	Functional separation between operating environments	When using a software-based isolation mechanism that consumes shared physical computing resources, the isolation mechanism or underlying operating system is replaced when it is no longer supported by 
ISM-1849	Secure web application design and development	The OWASP Top 10 Proactive Controls are used in the development of web applications.
ISM-1850	Secure web application design and development	The OWASP Top 10 are mitigated in the development of web applications.
ISM-1851	Web application programming interfaces	The OWASP API Security Top 10 are mitigated in the development of web APIs.
ISM-1852	Unprivileged access to systems	Unprivileged access to systems and their resources is limited to only what is required for users to undertake their duties or functions.
ISM-1854	Authenticating to multifunction devices	Human users authenticate to MFDs before they can print, scan or copy documents.
ISM-1855	Logging multifunction device use	Use of MFDs for printing, scanning and copying purposes, including the capture of shadow copies of documents, are centrally logged.
ISM-1858	Hardening IT equipment configurations	IT equipment is hardened using ASD and vendor hardening guidance, with the most restrictive guidance taking precedence when conflicts occur.
ISM-1859	Office productivity suites	Office productivity suites are hardened using ASD and vendor hardening guidance, with the most restrictive guidance taking precedence when conflicts occur.
ISM-1860	Portable Document Format applications	PDF applications are hardened using ASD and vendor hardening guidance, with the most restrictive guidance taking precedence when conflicts occur.
ISM-1861	Protecting credentials	Local Security Authority protection functionality is enabled.
ISM-1862	Using web application firewalls	If using a WAF, disclosing the IP addresses of web servers under an organisation’s control (referred to as origin servers) is avoided and access to the origin servers is restricted to the WAF and auth
ISM-1863	Networked management interfaces	Networked management interfaces for IT equipment are not directly exposed to the internet.
ISM-1864	System usage policy	A system usage policy is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1865	System access requirements	Personnel agree to abide by system usage policies before being granted access to systems and their resources.
ISM-1866	Privately owned mobile devices and desktop computers	Personnel using privately owned mobile devices or desktop computers to access OFFICIAL: Sensitive or PROTECTED systems or data are prevented from storing classified data on their privately owned mobil
ISM-1867	Approved mobile platforms	Mobile devices that access OFFICIAL: Sensitive or PROTECTED systems or data use mobile platforms that have completed a Common Criteria evaluation against the Protection Profile for Mobile Device Funda
ISM-1868	Encrypted storage	SECRET and TOP SECRET mobile devices do not use removable media unless approved beforehand by ASD.
ISM-1869	IT equipment registers	A non-networked IT equipment register is developed, implemented, maintained and regularly verified.
ISM-1870	Application control	Application control is applied to user profiles and temporary folders used by operating systems, web browsers and email clients.
ISM-1871	Application control	Application control is applied to all locations other than user profiles and temporary folders used by operating systems, web browsers and email clients.
ISM-1872	Multi-factor authentication	Multi-factor authentication used for authenticating human users of online services is phishing-resistant.
ISM-1873	Multi-factor authentication	Multi-factor authentication used for authenticating customers of online customer services provides a phishing-resistant option.
ISM-1874	Multi-factor authentication	Multi-factor authentication used for authenticating customers of online customer services is phishing-resistant.
ISM-1875	Protecting credentials	Systems are scanned at least monthly to identify any credentials that are being stored in the clear.
ISM-1876	Mitigating known vulnerabilities	Patches, updates or other vendor mitigations for vulnerabilities in online services are applied within 48 hours of release when vulnerabilities are assessed as critical by vendors or when working expl
ISM-1877	Mitigating known vulnerabilities	Patches, updates or other vendor mitigations for vulnerabilities in operating systems of internet-facing servers and internet-facing network devices are applied within 48 hours of release when vulnera
ISM-1878	Mitigating known vulnerabilities	Patches, updates or other vendor mitigations for vulnerabilities in operating systems of IT equipment other than workstations, servers and network devices are applied within 48 hours of release when v
ISM-1879	Mitigating known vulnerabilities	Patches, updates or other vendor mitigations for vulnerabilities in drivers are applied within 48 hours of release when vulnerabilities are assessed as critical by vendors or when working exploits exi
ISM-1880	Reporting cyber security incidents to customers and the public	Cyber security incidents that involve customer data are reported to customers and the public in a timely manner after they occur or are discovered.
ISM-1881	Reporting cyber security incidents to customers and the public	Cyber security incidents that do not involve customer data are reported to customers and the public in a timely manner after they occur or are discovered.
ISM-1882	Cyber supply chain risk management activities	Operating systems, applications, IT equipment, OT equipment and services are procured from suppliers that have demonstrated a commitment to transparency for their products and services.
ISM-1883	Privileged access to systems	Privileged user accounts explicitly authorised to access online services are strictly limited to only what is required for users to undertake their duties or functions.
ISM-1884	Emanation security doctrine	Emanation security doctrine produced by ASD for the management of emanation security matters is complied with.
ISM-1885	Emanation security risk assessments	Recommended actions contained within emanation security mitigation advice issued for systems are implemented by system owners.
ISM-1886	Maintaining mobile device security	Mobile devices are configured to operate in a supervised (or equivalent) mode.
ISM-1887	Maintaining mobile device security	Mobile devices are configured with remote locate and wipe functionality.
ISM-1888	Maintaining mobile device security	Mobile devices are configured with secure password-based lock screens.
ISM-1889	Command Shell	Command line process creation events are centrally logged.
ISM-1890	Office productivity suites	Microsoft Office macros are checked to ensure they are free of malicious code before being digitally signed or placed within Trusted Locations.
ISM-1891	Office productivity suites	Microsoft Office macros digitally signed by signatures other than V3 signatures cannot be enabled via the Message Bar or Backstage View.
ISM-1892	Multi-factor authentication	Multi-factor authentication is used to authenticate human users to their organisation’s online customer services that process, store or communicate their organisation’s sensitive customer data.
ISM-1893	Multi-factor authentication	Multi-factor authentication is used to authenticate human users to third-party online customer services that process, store or communicate their organisation’s sensitive customer data.
ISM-1894	Multi-factor authentication	Multi-factor authentication used for authenticating human users of data repositories is phishing-resistant.
ISM-1895	Single-factor authentication	Successful and unsuccessful single-factor authentication events are centrally logged.
ISM-1896	Hardening operating system configurations	Memory integrity functionality is enabled.
ISM-1897	Protecting credentials	Remote Credential Guard functionality is enabled.
ISM-1898	Separate privileged operating environments	Secure Admin Workstations are used in the performance of administrative activities.
ISM-1899	Administrative infrastructure	Network devices that do not belong to administrative infrastructure cannot initiate connections with administrative infrastructure.
ISM-1900	Vulnerability scanning	A vulnerability scanner is used at least fortnightly to identify missing patches or updates for vulnerabilities in firmware.
ISM-1901	Mitigating known vulnerabilities	Patches, updates or other vendor mitigations for vulnerabilities in office productivity suites, web browsers and their extensions, email clients, PDF applications, and security products are applied wi
ISM-1902	Mitigating known vulnerabilities	Patches, updates or other vendor mitigations for vulnerabilities in operating systems of workstations, non-internet-facing servers and non-internet-facing network devices are applied within one month 
ISM-1903	Mitigating known vulnerabilities	Patches, updates or other vendor mitigations for vulnerabilities in firmware are applied within 48 hours of release when vulnerabilities are assessed as critical by vendors or when working exploits ex
ISM-1904	Mitigating known vulnerabilities	Patches, updates or other vendor mitigations for vulnerabilities in firmware are applied within one month of release when vulnerabilities are assessed as non-critical by vendors and no working exploit
ISM-1905	Cessation of support	Online services that are no longer supported by vendors are removed.
ISM-1906	Event log monitoring	Event logs from internet-facing servers are analysed in a timely manner to detect cyber security events.
ISM-1907	Event log monitoring	Event logs from non-internet-facing servers are analysed in a timely manner to detect cyber security events.
ISM-1908	Reporting and resolving vulnerabilities	Vulnerabilities identified in software are publicly disclosed in a responsible and timely manner, including with Common Weakness Enumeration and Common Platform Enumeration information.
ISM-1909	Reporting and resolving vulnerabilities	In resolving vulnerabilities, root cause analysis is performed and, to the greatest extent possible, entire vulnerability classes are remediated.
ISM-1910	Network application programming interfaces	Network API calls that facilitate modification of data, or access to data not authorised for release into the public domain, and are accessible over the internet, are centrally logged.
ISM-1911	Software event logging	Security-relevant usage, error messages and crashes for software are centrally logged.
ISM-1912	Network documentation	Network documentation includes device settings for all critical servers, high-value servers, network devices and network security appliances.
ISM-1913	Hardening IT equipment configurations	Approved configurations for IT equipment are developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1914	Hardening operating system configurations	Approved configurations for operating systems are developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1915	Hardening user application configurations	Approved configurations for user applications are developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1916	Hardening server application configurations	Approved configurations for server applications are developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-1917	Transitioning to post-quantum cryptography	The development and procurement of new cryptographic equipment, applications and libraries ensures support for the use of ML-DSA-87, ML-KEM-1024, SHA-384, SHA-512 and AES-256 by no later than 2030.
ISM-1918	Reporting on cyber security	The CISO regularly reports directly to their organisation’s audit, risk and compliance committee (or equivalent) on cyber security matters.
ISM-1919	Multi-factor authentication	When multi-factor authentication is used to authenticate human users or customers to online services or online customer services, all other authentication protocols that do not support multi-factor au
ISM-1920	Multi-factor authentication	When multi-factor authentication is used to authenticate human users to online services, online customer services, systems or data repositories – that process, store or communicate their organisation’
ISM-1921	Vulnerability scanning	The likelihood of system compromise is frequently assessed when working exploits exist for unmitigated vulnerabilities.
ISM-1922	Secure mobile application development	The OWASP Mobile Application Security Verification Standard is used in the development of mobile applications.
ISM-1924	Prompt injection	Generative AI applications evaluate user prompts to detect and mitigate adversarial inputs or suffixes designed to elicit unintended behaviour or assist in the generation of sensitive or harmful conte
ISM-1926	Microsoft Active Directory services	Microsoft AD DS domain controllers, Microsoft AD CS servers, Microsoft AD FS servers and Microsoft Entra Connect servers are only used for their designed role and no other applications or services are
ISM-1927	Microsoft Active Directory services	Access to Microsoft AD DS domain controllers, Microsoft AD CS servers, Microsoft AD FS servers and Microsoft Entra Connect servers is limited to privileged users that require access.
ISM-1928	Microsoft Active Directory services	Backups of Microsoft AD DS domain controllers, Microsoft AD CS servers, Microsoft AD FS servers and Microsoft Entra Connect servers are encrypted using ASD-approved cryptography, stored securely and o
ISM-1929	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services	Lightweight Directory Access Protocol signing is enabled on Microsoft AD DS domain controllers.
ISM-1930	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services	Passwords are prevented from being stored in Group Policy Preferences.
ISM-1931	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services	SID Filtering is enabled for domain and forest trusts.
ISM-1932	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services account hardening	The number of service accounts configured with an SPN is minimised.
ISM-1933	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services account hardening	Service accounts configured with an SPN do not have DCSync permissions.
ISM-1934	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services account hardening	User accounts with DCSync permissions are reviewed at least every six months, and those without an ongoing requirement for the permissions have them removed.
ISM-1935	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services account hardening	Computer accounts are not configured for unconstrained delegation.
ISM-1936	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services account hardening	The sIDHistory attribute for user accounts is not used.
ISM-1937	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services account hardening	User accounts are checked at least weekly for the presence of the sIDHistory attribute.
ISM-1938	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services account hardening	The Domain Computers security group does not have write or modify permissions to any Microsoft Active Directory objects.
ISM-1939	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services security group memberships	The number of user accounts that are members of the Domain Admins, Enterprise Admins or other highly privileged security groups is minimised.
ISM-1940	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services security group memberships	Service accounts are not members of the Domain Admins, Enterprise Admins or other highly privileged security groups.
ISM-1941	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services security group memberships	Computer accounts are not members of the Domain Admins, Enterprise Admins or other highly privileged security groups.
ISM-1942	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services security group memberships	The Domain Computers security group is not a member of any privileged or highly privileged security groups.
ISM-1943	Microsoft Active Directory Certificate Services	Strong mapping between certificates and users is enforced.
ISM-1944	Microsoft Active Directory Certificate Services	The EDITF_ATTRIBUTESUBJECTALTNAME2 flag is removed from Microsoft AD CS certification authority configurations.
ISM-1945	Microsoft Active Directory Certificate Services	The CT_FLAG_ENROLLEE_SUPPLIES_SUBJECT flag is removed from certificate templates.
ISM-1946	Microsoft Active Directory Certificate Services	Unprivileged user accounts do not have write access to certificate templates.
ISM-1947	Microsoft Active Directory Certificate Services	Extended Key Usages that enable user authentication are removed.
ISM-1948	Microsoft Active Directory Certificate Services	Certificate manager approval is required for certificate templates that allow a Subject Alternative Name to be supplied.
ISM-1949	Microsoft Active Directory Federation Services	Microsoft AD FS servers are administered using a dedicated service account that is not used to administer other systems.
ISM-1950	Microsoft Entra Connect	Soft matching between Microsoft AD DS and Microsoft Entra ID is disabled following initial synchronisation activities.
ISM-1951	Microsoft Entra Connect	Hard match takeover is disabled for Microsoft Entra Connect servers.
ISM-1952	Microsoft Entra Connect	Privileged user accounts are not synchronised between Microsoft AD DS and Microsoft Entra ID.
ISM-1953	Setting credentials for built-in Administrator accounts, break glass accounts, local administrator accounts and service accounts	Credentials for the built-in Administrator account in each domain are long, unique, unpredictable and managed.
ISM-1954	Setting credentials for built-in Administrator accounts, break glass accounts, local administrator accounts and service accounts	Credentials for built-in Administrator accounts, break glass accounts, local administrator accounts and service accounts are randomly generated.
ISM-1955	Changing credentials	Credentials for computer accounts are changed if they are compromised, they are suspected of being compromised or they have not been changed in the past 30 days.
ISM-1956	Changing credentials	Microsoft AD FS token-signing and encryption certificates are changed twice in quick succession if they are compromised, they are suspected of being compromised or they have not been changed in the pa
ISM-1957	Protecting credentials	Private keys for Microsoft AD CS certification authority servers are protected by a hardware security module.
ISM-1958	Separate privileged operating environments	User accounts with DCSync permissions cannot be used to log on to unprivileged operating environments.
ISM-1959	Event log details	To the extent possible, event logs are captured and stored in a consistent and structured format.
ISM-1960	Event log monitoring	Event logs from internet-facing network devices are analysed in a timely manner to detect cyber security events.
ISM-1961	Event log monitoring	Event logs from non-internet-facing network devices are analysed in a timely manner to detect cyber security events.
ISM-1962	Using the Server Message Block protocol	SMB version 1 is not used on networks.
ISM-1963	Network device event logging	Security-relevant events for internet-facing network devices are centrally logged.
ISM-1964	Network device event logging	Security-relevant events for non-internet-facing network devices are centrally logged.
ISM-1965	Content checking	Files imported or exported via gateways or CDSs undergo content checking.
ISM-1966	Overseeing the cyber security program	The CISO develops, implements, maintains and regularly verifies a register of systems used by their organisation.
ISM-1967	Protecting systems and their resources	System owners, in consultation with each system’s authorising officer, ensure security controls for each TOP SECRET system and its operating environment, including each sensitive compartmented informa
ISM-1968	Protecting systems and their resources	System owners obtain an authorisation to operate for each TOP SECRET system, including for each sensitive compartmented information system, from Director-General ASD (or their delegate).
ISM-1969	Handling and containing malicious code infections	Malicious code, when stored or communicated, is treated beforehand to prevent accidental execution.
ISM-1970	Handling and containing malicious code infections	Malicious code processing for cyber security incident response or research purposes is conducted in a dedicated analysis environment segregated from other systems.
ISM-1971	Assessment of managed service providers	Managed service providers and their TOP SECRET managed services, including sensitive compartmented information managed services, undergo a security control assessment by ASD assessors (or their delega
ISM-1972	Assessment of outsourced cloud service providers	Outsourced cloud service providers and their TOP SECRET cloud services, including sensitive compartmented information cloud services, undergo a security control assessment by ASD assessors (or their d
ISM-1973	Physical access to systems	Non-classified systems are secured in suitably secure facilities.
ISM-1974	Physical access to servers, network devices and cryptographic equipment	Non-classified servers, network devices and cryptographic equipment are secured in suitably secure server rooms or communications rooms.
ISM-1975	Physical access to servers, network devices and cryptographic equipment	Non-classified servers, network devices and cryptographic equipment are secured in suitably secure security containers.
ISM-1976	Operating system event logging	Security-relevant events for Apple macOS operating systems are centrally logged.
ISM-1977	Operating system event logging	Security-relevant events for Linux operating systems are centrally logged.
ISM-1978	Server application event logging	Security-relevant events for server applications on internet-facing servers are centrally logged.
ISM-1979	Server application event logging	Security-relevant events for server applications on non-internet-facing servers are centrally logged.
ISM-1980	Protecting credentials	Credential hint functionality is not used for systems.
ISM-1981	Cessation of support	Non-internet-facing network devices that are no longer supported by vendors are replaced.
ISM-1982	Cessation of support	Networked IT equipment that is no longer supported by vendors is replaced.
ISM-1983	Centralised event logging facility	Event logs sent to a centralised event logging facility are sent as soon as possible after they occur.
ISM-1984	Centralised event logging facility	Event logs sent to a centralised event logging facility are encrypted in transit using Australian Signals Directorate (ASD)-approved cryptography.
ISM-1985	Centralised event logging facility	Event logs are protected from unauthorised access.
ISM-1986	Event log monitoring	Event logs from critical servers are analysed in a timely manner to detect cyber security events.
ISM-1987	Event log monitoring	Event logs from security products are analysed in a timely manner to detect cyber security events.
ISM-1988	Event log retention	Event logs are retained in a searchable manner for at least 12 months.
ISM-1989	Event log retention	Event logs are retained as per minimum retention requirements for various classes of records as set out by the National Archives of Australia’s Administrative Functions Disposal Authority Express (AFD
ISM-1990	Using post-quantum cryptographic algorithms	When using ML-DSA and ML-KEM, as per FIPS 204 and FIPS 203 respectively, adherence to pre-requisite FIPS 140-3 validation is preferred.
ISM-1991	Using the Module-Lattice-Based Digital Signature Algorithm	When using ML-DSA for digital signatures, ML-DSA-65 or ML-DSA-87 is used, preferably ML-DSA-87.
ISM-1992	Using the Module-Lattice-Based Digital Signature Algorithm	When using ML-DSA for digital signatures, the hedged variant is used whenever possible.
ISM-1993	Using the Module-Lattice-Based Digital Signature Algorithm	Pre-hashed variants of ML-DSA-65 and ML-DSA-87 are only used when the performance of default variants is unacceptable.
ISM-1994	Using the Module-Lattice-Based Digital Signature Algorithm	When the pre-hashed variants of ML-DSA-65 and ML-DSA-87 are used, at least SHA-384 and SHA-512 respectively are used for pre-hashing.
ISM-1995	Using the Module-Lattice-Based Key Encapsulation Mechanism	When using ML-KEM for encapsulating encryption session keys (and similar keys), ML-KEM-768 or ML-KEM-1024 is used, preferably ML-KEM-1024.
ISM-1996	Post-quantum traditional hybrid schemes	When a post-quantum traditional hybrid scheme is used, either the post-quantum cryptographic algorithm, the traditional cryptographic algorithm or both are AACAs.
ISM-1997	Embedding cyber security	The board of directors or executive committee defines clear roles and responsibilities for cyber security both within the board of directors or executive committee and broadly within their organisatio
ISM-1998	Embedding cyber security	The board of directors or executive committee ensures that cyber security is integrated throughout all business functions within their organisation.
ISM-1999	Embedding cyber security	The board of directors or executive committee ensures the cyber security strategy for their organisation is aligned with the overarching strategic direction and business strategy for their organisatio
ISM-2000	Embedding cyber security	The board of directors or executive committee seeks regular briefings or reporting on the cyber security posture of their organisation, as well as the threat environment in which they operate, from in
ISM-2001	Championing a positive cyber security culture	The board of directors or executive committee champions a positive cyber security culture within their organisation, including through leading by example.
ISM-2002	Building cyber security expertise	The board of directors or executive committee maintains a sufficient level of cyber security literacy to fulfil both their fiduciary duties and any legislative or regulatory obligations.
ISM-2003	Building cyber security expertise	The board of directors or executive committee maintains awareness of key cyber security recruitment activities, retention rates for cyber security personnel, and cyber security skills and experience g
ISM-2004	Building cyber security expertise	The board of directors or executive committee supports the development of cyber security skills and experience for all personnel via internal and external cyber security awareness raising and training
ISM-2005	Identifying critical business assets	The board of directors or executive committee understands the business criticality of their organisation’s systems, including at least a basic understanding of what systems exist, their value, where t
ISM-2006	Planning for major cyber security incidents	The board of directors or executive committee plans for major cyber security incidents, including by participating in exercises, and understands their duties in relation to such cyber security inciden
ISM-2007	Bringing medical devices into facilities	An authorised medical device register for SECRET and TOP SECRET areas is developed, implemented, maintained and regularly verified.
ISM-2008	Bringing medical devices into facilities	Medical devices authorised to be brought into SECRET and TOP SECRET areas meet, at a minimum, the following criteria:

- are listed on the Australian Register of Therapeutic Goods
- have been prescrib
ISM-2009	Bringing medical devices into facilities	Unauthorised medical devices are not brought into SECRET and TOP SECRET areas.
ISM-2010	Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services account hardening	Service accounts configured with an SPN use the Advanced Encryption Standard for encryption.
ISM-2011	Multi-factor authentication	When phishing-resistant multi-factor authentication is used by human users, other non-phishing-resistant multi-factor authentication options are disabled for their user accounts.
ISM-2012	Screen locking	Systems are configured with a screen lock that:

- activates after a maximum of 15 minutes of human user inactivity, or when manually activated
- conceals all content on the screen
- ensures that the 
ISM-2013	Network application programming interfaces	Authentication and authorisation of clients is performed when clients call network APIs that facilitate modification of data but are not accessible over the internet.
ISM-2014	Network application programming interfaces	Authentication and authorisation of clients is performed when clients call network APIs that facilitate access to data not authorised for release into the public domain but are not accessible over the
ISM-2015	Network application programming interfaces	Network API calls that facilitate modification of data, or access to data not authorised for release into the public domain, but are not accessible over the internet, are centrally logged.
ISM-2016	Software input handling	Validation and sanitisation are performed on all input received over a local network by software.
ISM-2017	Encrypted Domain Name System Services	DNS traffic is encrypted by clients and servers using ASD-approved cryptography.
ISM-2018	Border Gateway Protocol routing security	Routes for RPKI-registered IP addresses that are advertised from invalid Autonomous Systems, or that are longer than allowed, are rejected or deprioritised by routers that exchange routes via BGP.
ISM-2019	Assessment of gateways	TOP SECRET gateways undergo a security control assessment by ASD assessors (or their delegates), using the latest release of the ISM available prior to the beginning of the assessment (or a subsequent
ISM-2020	Overseeing cyber security personnel	The CISO ensures sufficient cyber security personnel, with the right skills and experience, are acquired to support cyber security activities within their organisation.
ISM-2021	Protecting systems and their resources	System owners implement and maintain data minimisation practices for each of their systems.
ISM-2022	Providing cyber security awareness training	A cyber security awareness training register is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-2023	Authoritative source for software	An authoritative source for software is established and maintained.
ISM-2024	Authoritative source for software	The authoritative source for software is used for all software development activities.
ISM-2025	Issue tracking	An issue tracking solution is used to link software development tasks to security issues and decisions, change or feature requests, programming issues, or bug fixes.
ISM-2026	Software artefacts	All software artefacts are scanned for malicious content before being imported into the authoritative source for software.
ISM-2027	Software artefacts	All software artefacts are verified by a digital signature, or a secure hash provided over a secure channel, before being imported into the authoritative source for software.
ISM-2028	Software artefacts	All software artefacts are tested to detect known weaknesses using static application security testing (SAST), dynamic application security testing (DAST) or software composition analysis (SCA), depen
ISM-2029	Software artefacts	The authoritative source for software restricts the use and import of third-party libraries and software components to trustworthy sources.
ISM-2030	Software artefacts	Scanning is used during commits to identify plain text or encoded credentials, keys and secrets, which are then blocked from being stored in the authoritative source for software.
ISM-2031	Build solution	Compilers, interpreters and build tools (including pipelines) that provide security features to improve executable file security are implemented and such security features are used.
ISM-2032	Build solution	The build solution ensures that all automated testing is completed without warnings, alerts or errors before building software artefacts.
ISM-2033	Secure software development	All software security requirements are documented, stored securely and maintained throughout the software development life cycle.
ISM-2034	Secure software development	Security design decisions are documented and reviewed throughout the software development cycle.
ISM-2035	Secure software development	Security roles, responsibilities and knowledge required to support the software development life cycle are identified and documented.
ISM-2036	Secure software development	Security responsibilities for software developers are identified and documented.
ISM-2037	Secure software development	Software developers that lack sufficient cyber security knowledge and skills required for their projects or tasks undertake suitable training or upskilling on secure software development and programmi
ISM-2038	Secure software development	A software developer cyber security knowledge and skills register is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-2039	Secure software development	The software threat model is reviewed throughout the software development life cycle to ensure it reflects the as-built software and any changes to the threat environment.
ISM-2040	Secure software development	Secure programming practices for the chosen programming language are used for software development.
ISM-2041	Secure software development	Memory-safe programming languages, or less preferably memory-safe programming practices, are used for software development.
ISM-2042	Secure software development	Secure by Default principles and practices are followed throughout the software development life cycle, including by ensuring that all built-in security measures are included and enabled in the base p
ISM-2043	Secure software development	Software is architected and structured to support readability and maintainability.
ISM-2044	Secure software development	Software has no default credentials; however, if credentials are required, they are created on first install by the installing organisation.
ISM-2045	Secure software development	Application backwards compatibility does not compromise any security measures or features.
ISM-2046	Secure software development	Where software allows user impersonation, sensitive data is not logged and appropriate permissions are set.
ISM-2047	Secure software development	Where software allows an authentication factor to be reset for a human user, the human user is notified of the reset through a secondary channel.
ISM-2048	Secure software development	Where software supports multiple user roles, non-administrative users are prevented from altering their profile permissions or privileges.
ISM-2049	Secure software development	When user permissions or credentials are changed, software forces all impacted users to re-authenticate.
ISM-2050	Secure software development	When digital signatures are processed by software, they are validated against a certificate trust chain and checked for revocation using a Certificate Revocation List or with the Online Certificate St
ISM-2051	Secure software development	Software generates sufficient event logs to support the detection of cyber security events.
ISM-2052	Secure software development	Event logs produced by software ensure that any sensitive data is protected.
ISM-2053	Secure software development	End of life procedures for software, including procedures for software removal and the archival or destruction of user accounts and data, are produced and made available to consumers.
ISM-2054	Software bill of materials	If a software bill of materials is available for imported third-party software components, it is used during software development to ensure such software components have no known vulnerabilities.
ISM-2055	Software build provenance	If a software build provenance is available for imported third-party software components, it is used during software development to ensure such software components are built to an appropriate standard
ISM-2056	Software build provenance	A software build provenance is produced and made available to consumers of software.
ISM-2057	Software input handling	All input validation rules are documented, implemented in code, and tested using both positive and negative unit tests and integration tests.
ISM-2058	Software input handling	Data sources and serialised data inputs are validated before being deserialised.
ISM-2059	Software input handling	File uploads or input are restricted to specific file types, with malicious content scanning occurring prior to file access, file execution or file storage.
ISM-2060	Software security testing	Code reviews are utilised to ensure software components meets Secure by Design principles and practices as well as secure programming practices.
ISM-2061	Software security testing	Peer reviews are conducted on all critical and security-related software components.
ISM-2062	Software security testing	Unit testing and integration testing, covering both positive and negative use cases, are used for software components to ensure code quality and correctness.
ISM-2063	Secure web application design and development	If supported, web application session cookies set the HttpOnly flag, Secure flag and the SameSite flag by default.
ISM-2064	Secure web application design and development	Web application session cookies contain only digitally signed opaque bearer tokens.
ISM-2065	Secure web application design and development	Web application session cookies using opaque bearer tokens that are not digitally signed use non-sequential random identifiers with a minimum of 128 bits of entropy, preferably 256 bits of entropy.
ISM-2066	Secure web application design and development	Web application sessions are centrally managed server side.
ISM-2067	Secure web application design and development	Web applications that support Single Sign On equally support Single Logout.
ISM-2068	Functional separation between networked devices and the internet	Internet connectivity for networked devices is strictly limited to those that require access.
ISM-2069	Bringing photographic and video recording devices into facilities	An authorised photographic and video recording device register for SECRET and TOP SECRET areas is developed, implemented, maintained and regularly verified.
ISM-2070	Bringing photographic and video recording devices into facilities	Unauthorised photographic and video recording devices are not brought into SECRET and TOP SECRET areas.
ISM-2071	Managing requests to modify user accounts	Personnel dealing with user account details are advised of what social engineering attacks are, how to manage such situations and how to report them.
ISM-2072	Secure artificial intelligence application development	AI models are stored in a non-executable file format that does not allow arbitrary code execution.
ISM-2073	Transitioning to post-quantum cryptography	A post-quantum cryptography transition plan is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-2074	General-purpose artificial intelligence usage policy	A general-purpose AI usage policy is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-2075	Sending and receiving fax messages	Fax machines, and online fax services, are not used for sending or receiving fax messages.
ISM-2076	Insecure authentication methods	Security questions are not used for authentication purposes.
ISM-2077	Insecure authentication methods	Email is not used for out-of-band authentication purposes.
ISM-2078	Password strength	Passwords appearing in lists of commonly used passwords or lists of compromised passwords are not used.
ISM-2079	Password strength	Maximum length limits for passwords are not less than 64 characters.
ISM-2080	Password strength	Password complexity requirements are not imposed for passwords.
ISM-2081	Password strength	All ASCII printable characters are supported for passwords.
ISM-2082	Cryptographic bill of materials	If a cryptographic bill of materials is available for imported third-party software components, it is used during software development to ensure such software components provide support for standardis
ISM-2083	Cryptographic bill of materials	A cryptographic bill of materials is produced and made available to consumers of software.
ISM-2084	Secure artificial intelligence application development	AI-specific documentation, including AI model cards and AI system cards (or equivalent artefacts), is used to document AI model characteristics, system architectures, use cases and security risks.
ISM-2085	Secure artificial intelligence application development	The exposure of exact AI model confidence scores in API outputs or user interfaces is prevented.
ISM-2086	Artificial intelligence model poisoning	The source and integrity of AI models, structures and weights are verified.
ISM-2087	Artificial intelligence model poisoning	The source and integrity of training data for AI models is verified.
ISM-2088	Artificial intelligence model poisoning	Data validation and verification techniques are used to ensure the reliability and accuracy of training data used by AI models.
ISM-2089	Unbounded consumption	AI model performance metrics are monitored and anomalies are investigated.
ISM-2090	Unbounded consumption	Rate limiting is applied to inference queries for AI models.
ISM-2091	Unbounded consumption	Resource limits are enforced for AI models.
ISM-2092	Excessive agency	Access control policies are implemented to enforce fine-grained permissions for AI applications.
ISM-2093	Excessive agency	Role-based access controls are implemented for AI applications to restrict access to sensitive data.
ISM-2094	Sensitive data exposure and improper output	Content filtering is implemented by AI applications to detect and block sensitive data exposure and improper output.
ISM-2095	Privately owned mobile devices and desktop computers	Personnel using privately owned mobile devices or desktop computers to access OFFICIAL: Sensitive or PROTECTED systems or data are disallowed from granting access to unapproved artificial intelligence
ISM-2096	Maintaining mobile device security	Mobile devices are configured to enforce separation between organisational and personal mobile applications and data.
ISM-2097	Maintaining mobile device security	Mobile devices are configured with always on VPN functionality.
ISM-2098	Maintaining mobile device security	Mobile devices are configured to prevent data transfers over Universal Serial Bus connections.
ISM-2099	Connecting mobile devices to connected vehicles	Mobile devices are not connected to the infotainment systems of connected vehicles.
ISM-2100	Using mobile devices within or near connected vehicles	Sensitive or classified data is not viewed on mobile devices within or near connected vehicles.
ISM-2101	Using mobile devices within or near connected vehicles	Sensitive or classified phone calls and conversations are not conducted within or near connected vehicles.
ISM-2102	Software artefacts	Existing software artefacts in the authoritative source for software are periodically tested to detect known weaknesses using SAST, DAST or SCA, depending on the software artefact type, throughout the
ISM-2103	Data collection, retention and use	Organisational data generated, collected or processed by AI applications is not used for training, fine-tuning or improving AI models unless informed and explicit consent has been obtained from data o
ISM-2104	Posting work-related information on online services	Personnel are advised not to post information about their security clearance and briefings on unauthorised online services, and to report cases where such information is posted.
ISM-2105	Posting work-related information on online services	Personnel are advised to limit posting information about their work-related duties on unauthorised online services, and to report cases where such information is posted.
ISM-2106	Posting work-related information on online services	Personnel are advised to limit posting information about their work-related skills and experience on unauthorised online services, and to report cases where such information is posted.
ISM-2107	Posting personal information on online services	Personnel are encouraged to use any available privacy settings to restrict who can view personal information they post on online services.
ISM-2108	Encrypted communications	Mobile applications encrypt all sensitive or classified data communicated over public network infrastructure using ASD-approved cryptography.
ISM-2109	Encrypting media	Pre-boot authentication using passwords, or managed network-based key release, is implemented for media containing encrypted system volumes.
ISM-2110	Hardening user application configurations	User applications are hardened using ASD and vendor hardening guidance, with the most restrictive guidance taking precedence when conflicts occur.
ISM-2111	Hardening user application configurations	All temporary installation files created during user application installation processes are removed after user applications have been installed.
ISM-2112	Artificial intelligence applications	AI applications that process classified data have their ability to directly access external public data sources disabled.
ISM-2113	Artificial intelligence applications	AI applications are configured to require human approval before executing sensitive or high-impact actions.
ISM-2114	Artificial intelligence applications	Baselines of expected behaviour and performance for AI applications are established and monitored for unexpected deviations.
ISM-2115	Hardening server application configurations	Extensions for server applications are restricted to an organisation-approved set.
ISM-2116	Event log monitoring	Cyber threat intelligence services are used to support the detection of cyber security events and the identification of cyber security incidents.
ISM-2117	Event log monitoring	Suitable AI models are used to augment the detection of cyber security events and the identification of cyber security incidents.
ISM-2118	Vulnerability assessments and penetration tests	Vulnerability assessments and penetration tests are conducted for systems prior to their deployment, including prior to the deployment of significant changes, and at least every six months thereafter.
ISM-2119	Vulnerability assessments and penetration tests	Suitable AI models are used to augment vulnerability assessments and penetration tests.
ISM-2120	Secure software development	A secure software development policy is developed, implemented and maintained.
ISM-2121	Secure software development	Software developers that lack sufficient cyber security knowledge and skills required for their projects or tasks are not used.
ISM-2122	Software security testing	Suitable AI models are used to augment software security testing.
ISM-2123	Data collection, retention and use	All prompts and outputs associated with chat sessions are securely deleted when chat sessions are removed from AI applications.
ISM-2124	Access to systems by service providers	Access by a service provider to an organisation’s systems is restricted to remote management tools, source network addresses and time windows explicitly approved by the organisation.
ISM-2125	Access to systems by service providers	All access to an organisation’s systems by a service provider is independently logged by the organisation in a manner that the service provider cannot modify or delete, and analysed in a timely manner
ISM-2126	Synthetic impersonation	Personnel positively identify requestors using a pre-established authentication method or independent trusted communication channel before actioning requests to modify user account details, modify ban
ISM-2127	Hardening operating system configurations	Digital signature verification functionality for drivers is enforced before they are loaded.
ISM-2128	Hardening operating system configurations	The ability to install, load or modify kernel-mode code, including drivers, kernel modules and extensions, is limited to privileged users who require such abilities as part of their duties or function
ISM-2129	Windows Management Instrumentation	WMI activity, including the creation of permanent event subscriptions, is centrally logged.
ISM-2130	Microsoft Active Directory Certificate Services	Web-based enrolment interfaces for Microsoft AD CS servers are disabled unless required, and where enabled, are configured to require HTTPS and Extended Protection for Authentication.
ISM-2131	Microsoft Active Directory Certificate Services	Certificate templates are reviewed at least every three months to identify and remediate misconfigurations that could enable privilege escalation or unauthorised certificate enrolment.
ISM-2132	Microsoft Active Directory Certificate Services	Certificate enrolment events, including successful and unsuccessful requests and changes to certificate templates or Microsoft AD CS configurations, are centrally logged.
ISM-2133	Artificial intelligence agent identification	Each AI agent is assigned a unique identity that is distinct from the user accounts of personnel and the identities of other AI agents.
ISM-2134	Artificial intelligence agent register	An AI agent register is developed, implemented, maintained and regularly verified.
ISM-2135	Artificial intelligence agent register	An AI agent register contains the following for each AI agent:

- its unique identifier
- its owner and business purpose
- the identities assigned to it
- any user accounts and credentials it uses
- t
ISM-2136	Authenticating to systems	Risk-based access decisions, informed by contextual signals, are enforced for access to systems and their resources.
ISM-2137	Third-party application access and device code authentication	Human users are prevented from granting consent to third-party OAuth applications, with such consent granted only by an authorised administrator.
ISM-2138	Third-party application access and device code authentication	OAuth application consents, including their granted permissions, are reviewed at least every six months, with unused applications and excessive permissions revoked.
ISM-2139	Third-party application access and device code authentication	Consent grants, token issuance and token use for third-party OAuth applications are centrally logged.
ISM-2140	Third-party application access and device code authentication	The OAuth device code authentication flow is disabled unless required, and where required, is restricted to authorised user accounts and managed devices.
ISM-2141	Application and workload credentials	Applications and workloads use short-lived dynamically issued credentials in preference to long-lived static credentials.
ISM-2142	Application and workload credentials	Static credentials used by applications and workloads are centrally managed using a credential or secrets management solution.
ISM-2143	Application and workload credentials	Applications and workloads use unique credentials that are not shared with other applications or workloads, or across development, testing, staging and production environments.
ISM-2144	Changing credentials	Static credentials used by applications and workloads are changed if:

- they are compromised or suspected of being compromised
- they are discovered stored on systems in the clear
- they are discover
ISM-2145	Revoking credentials	Credentials for user accounts are revoked when they are no longer required.
ISM-2146	Revoking credentials	Static credentials used by applications and workloads are revoked when they are no longer required.
ISM-2147	Protecting authentication artefacts	Authentication tokens, session cookies and refresh tokens are cryptographically bound to the device on which they were issued.
ISM-2148	Protecting authentication artefacts	Active sessions, refresh tokens and other authentication artefacts are revoked when credentials are reset or re-enrolled, when credentials are compromised or suspected of being compromised, when a dev
ISM-2149	Administrative tools	A list of authorised RMM tools and remote access tools is developed, enforced and maintained.
ISM-2150	Administrative tools	Network connections for unauthorised RMM tools and remote access tools are blocked at gateways.
ISM-2151	Backup modification and deletion	Backups are stored using a technically enforced immutability mechanism that prevents their modification or deletion for the duration of their retention period.
ISM-2152	Backup modification and deletion	Backup infrastructure, including backup servers, repositories and management consoles, is segregated from production environments and uses a separate authentication mechanism for administrative access
ISM-2153	Threat hunting	Threat hunting activities, informed by current strategic and sector-specific cyber threat intelligence, are conducted at least every three months.
ISM-2154	Software artefacts	Software artefact dependencies are pinned to approved versions in source code.
ISM-2155	Build solution	Software is built using reproducible build practices that enable independent verification that release artefacts were produced from the stated source code.
ISM-2156	Excessive agency	Agentic AI applications are restricted to the minimum set of tools, functions and permissions required for their intended purpose.
ISM-2157	Excessive agency	Tools invoked by agentic AI applications are subject to both the access controls of the invoking user and agent-specific, task-scoped authorisation, with effective permissions limited to the minimum p
ISM-2158	Excessive agency	External content retrieved by agentic AI applications is treated as untrusted data throughout processing, is clearly delimited from system instructions, is subject to validation and sanitisation measu
ISM-2159	Excessive agency	All tool invocations, external requests and outputs generated by agentic AI applications are centrally logged with sufficient detail to support cyber security incident investigations.
ISM-2160	Networked management interfaces	Networked management interfaces for IT equipment are only accessible from a dedicated management network that is segregated from the wider network and the internet.
ISM-2161	Network device integrity	The integrity of network device firmware and running configurations is verified against an approved known-good baseline following patching, on detection of anomalous behaviour and at least monthly.
ISM-2162	Network device hardening	Unneeded components, services and functionality of network devices are disabled or removed.
ISM-2163	Media Access Control Security	When using MACsec, confidentiality protection mode is enabled using GCM-AES-128, GCM-AES-256, GCM-AES-XPN-128 or GCM-AES-XPN-256, preferably GCM-AES-256 or GCM-AES-XPN-256.
ISM-2164	Media Access Control Security	A connectivity association lifetime of less than 24 hours (86400 seconds) is used for MACsec connections.
ISM-2165	Media Access Control Security	When using EAP-TLS, each device performs a fresh EAP-TLS authentication each time a new Connectivity Association Key is required.
ISM-2166	Media Access Control Security	A secure association lifetime of less than four hours (14400 seconds) is used for MACsec connections.
ISM-2167	Media Access Control Security	The use of a Pre-Shared Key as a fallback authentication method for MACsec is disabled.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-DET-01	Detect cyber security principles	Security-relevant event logs and configuration changes for systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) are centrally collected, protected against unauthorised modification or de
ISM-PRINCIPLE-DET-02	Detect cyber security principles	Anomalous or unexpected events and behaviours for systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) are analysed in a timely manner to detect cyber security events.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-DET-03	Detect cyber security principles	Cyber security events are analysed in a timely manner to identify cyber security incidents.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-DET-04	Detect cyber security principles	Baseline patterns of identity and credential access activities, privileged access activities, and remote access activities are established and maintained for systems (infrastructure, operating systems
ISM-PRINCIPLE-DET-05	Detect cyber security principles	Cyber security event detection capabilities are regularly evaluated for effectiveness and continuously refined, including by using current strategic and sector-specific cyber threat intelligence, to i
ISM-PRINCIPLE-GOV-01	Govern cyber security principles	The board of directors or executive committee is accountable for cyber security.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-GOV-02	Govern cyber security principles	A chief information security officer provides leadership and oversight of cyber security activities and delivers regular and timely risk-based reporting to the board of directors or executive committe
ISM-PRINCIPLE-GOV-03	Govern cyber security principles	Security risk management activities for an organisation and their systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) are embedded into organisational risk management frameworks and sub
ISM-PRINCIPLE-GOV-04	Govern cyber security principles	Suitable and sufficient personnel and resources are identified, acquired and maintained in support of cyber security activities.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-GOV-05	Govern cyber security principles	Residual security risks for systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data), including inherited and shared security risks, are accepted before they are authorised for use and conti
ISM-PRINCIPLE-GOV-06	Govern cyber security principles	Residual security risks for systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data), including inherited and shared security risks, are transparently and mutually communicated with stakehol
ISM-PRINCIPLE-GOV-07	Govern cyber security principles	Security risk management and associated cyber security activities are continually measured and reviewed using cyber threat intelligence and assurance activities, including exercises informed by real-w
ISM-PRINCIPLE-GOV-08	Govern cyber security principles	The board of directors or executive committee is accountable for ensuring that artificial intelligence is secure, controllable, human-supervised and used in an ethical and accountable manner.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-GOV-09	Govern cyber security principles	Security risk management responsibilities for an organisation and their suppliers, partners and customers, including any shared responsibilities, are documented and communicated to all relevant partie
ISM-PRINCIPLE-GOV-10	Govern cyber security principles	Information about the design, configuration and operation of systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) is not publicly disclosed or shared externally unless necessary for comm
ISM-PRINCIPLE-GOV-11	Govern cyber security principles	Systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) are delivered and supported by trustworthy suppliers whose cyber security practices are regularly independently verified or otherwise
ISM-PRINCIPLE-GOV-12	Govern cyber security principles	Personnel are granted access to systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) only where their suitability and trustworthiness have been established and are subject to ongoing ass
ISM-PRINCIPLE-GOV-13	Govern cyber security principles	Security controls for systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) do not compromise human, physical or environmental safety.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-GOV-14	Govern cyber security principles	Systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) that are not capable of meeting cyber security requirements are managed using compensating security controls, along with enhanced mon
ISM-PRINCIPLE-IDE-01	Identify cyber security principles	Systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications, identities, credentials and data) are continually and centrally identified and documented.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-IDE-02	Identify cyber security principles	Business criticality ratings for systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) are identified and documented.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-IDE-03	Identify cyber security principles	Security requirements for systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) are identified and documented.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-IDE-04	Identify cyber security principles	Security risks for an organisation and their systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) are identified, including by using current strategic and sector-specific cyber threat in
ISM-PRINCIPLE-IDE-05	Identify cyber security principles	Interdependencies between systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) are continually and centrally identified and documented, including how the compromise of one system could a
ISM-PRINCIPLE-IDE-06	Identify cyber security principles	Resilience requirements for systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) are identified and documented.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-PRO-01	Protect cyber security principles	Systems (infrastructure, operating systems and applications) are planned, designed, developed, tested, deployed, maintained and decommissioned according to their business criticality ratings and secur
ISM-PRINCIPLE-PRO-04	Protect cyber security principles	Systems (infrastructure, operating systems and applications) are securely configured to approved and maintained baselines, including by reducing attack surfaces and attack paths, with configurations c
ISM-PRINCIPLE-PRO-05	Protect cyber security principles	Systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) are administered in a secure, accountable and auditable manner.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-PRO-06	Protect cyber security principles	Vulnerabilities in systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) are identified, documented, validated and prioritised for remediation or mitigation in a timely manner, with all r
ISM-PRINCIPLE-PRO-07	Protect cyber security principles	Systems (operating systems and applications) only permit the execution of software that is supported, verified and authorised.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-PRO-08	Protect cyber security principles	Data is encrypted and authenticated at rest and in transit using ASD-approved cryptography to protect its confidentiality and integrity.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-PRO-09	Protect cyber security principles	Data communicated between different security domains for systems (infrastructure and applications) is controlled and subject to inspection and verification.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-PRO-10	Protect cyber security principles	Systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) are regularly backed up in a secure and proven manner, including through the validation of restoration capabilities.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-PRO-12	Protect cyber security principles	Users are granted the minimum access to systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) required to undertake their duties or functions.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-PRO-13	Protect cyber security principles	Robust and secure identity, credential and access management is used to establish, maintain and control access to systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) and to support effe
ISM-PRINCIPLE-PRO-14	Protect cyber security principles	Personnel are provided with ongoing cyber security awareness training, including operational security considerations, tailored to their duties, access levels and current cyber threats.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-PRO-15	Protect cyber security principles	Physical access to facilities and systems (infrastructure and data) is restricted to authorised personnel and monitored for unusual activities.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-PRO-16	Protect cyber security principles	Cyber supply chains supporting systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) are secure, resilient and support effective and coordinated cyber security incident response.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-PRO-17	Protect cyber security principles	Systems (infrastructure, operating systems and applications) are designed, configured and managed to support timely, prioritised and orderly changes to cryptography, including post-quantum cryptograph
ISM-PRINCIPLE-PRO-18	Protect cyber security principles	Systems (infrastructure, operating systems and applications) are segmented into network zones based on business criticality and trust levels, with only authorised, controlled and monitored inbound and
ISM-PRINCIPLE-PRO-19	Protect cyber security principles	Operational technology systems (infrastructure) are logically and physically isolated from information technology systems (infrastructure) and all external infrastructure, with only authorised, contro
ISM-PRINCIPLE-PRO-20	Protect cyber security principles	Access to operational technology systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) over untrusted infrastructure is authorised, controlled and monitored.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-REC-01	Recover cyber security principles	Residual security risks for systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data), including inherited and shared security risks, are accepted prior to the resumption of normal business o
ISM-PRINCIPLE-REC-02	Recover cyber security principles	Following cyber security incidents, systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) are verified through assurance activities to ensure they are secure and capable of supporting the
ISM-PRINCIPLE-RES-01	Respond cyber security principles	Cyber security incident response, business continuity and disaster recovery plans for systems (infrastructure, operating systems, applications and data) support continued business operations during cy
ISM-PRINCIPLE-RES-02	Respond cyber security principles	Cyber security incidents, including associated response and recovery activities, are reported internally and externally to relevant bodies and stakeholders in a timely manner.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-RES-03	Respond cyber security principles	Cyber security incidents are contained, eradicated and recovered from in a timely manner.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-RES-04	Respond cyber security principles	Lessons learnt from cyber security incidents are captured, and areas for improvement are identified, prioritised and actioned in a timely manner.
ISM-PRINCIPLE-RES-05	Respond cyber security principles	Cyber security incident roles and responsibilities are defined, documented and exercised to support the internal and external coordination and management of cyber security incidents, including respons
